app/views/content/blog/11-top-tips-for-interview-success.md, before:

---
title: 11 top tips for interview success
author: Caroline Downing
date: "2021-12-06"
description: |-
  You've taken that first step in making an Initial Teacher Training
  application and providers have been in touch to offer you an interview. So,
  what next? Thorough preparation can make or break a successful interview.
  Here are my simple top ten winning tips for securing that Initial Teacher
  Training place.
images:
  interview:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/interview.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/interview.jpg"
    alt: "A teacher training candidate being interviewed by a provider sitting at opposite sides of a desk"
keywords:
  - becoming a teacher
  - applications
  - interviews
tags:
  - becoming a teacher
  - applications
---

$interview$

_Caroline Downing is the Primary Programme Leader at the [Bedfordshire Schools' Training Partnership](https://bedsscitt.org.uk). Her responsibilities include interviewing applicants and assessing their potential to become successful classroom professionals. She believes the key to being offered that sought after training place lies in effective interview preparation._

## 1. Pre-interview 

Confirm your attendance to any interview invitation and pay attention to what is being asked of you on the day. Interview formats can vary. If in doubt, make a phone call to the provider to ask for clarification.

## 2. Professional dialogue 

Often email correspondence is your first line of professional dialogue with providers. Be mindful of using formal language to support your application. Text speak in emails may not go down too well! Follow the tone set by the provider in any written communication. 

## 3. Be informed

Know what you are applying for. Routes and training programmes differ, and you may have applied to several providers. Training provider websites will give you key information that you can refer to at interview. Make a note of any key personnel names and who to ask for on your arrival. This will give a positive first impression. You are applying to train to teach - invest some time finding out about The Teachers' Standards, Safeguarding in Schools and The National Curriculum. 

## 4. Remote or face-to-face

In times of COVID 19, interviews may take place via an online platform. Check that your camera and sound are working beforehand. Join the 'call' on time and consider your screen background beforehand. If you are travelling to an interview venue, allow yourself plenty of time on the day. Don’t assume you will be able to park directly outside. Some sites are large and will require you to walk some distance. If need be, do a practice run to reduce stress levels on the day.

## 5. Be organised

Have everything ready for the interview the night before. Bring any required documents and supporting materials together in a plastic wallet that you can hand over. Having additional copies readily available for providers sets the tone that you are a well-organised individual. Remember key equipment; a pen, face mask, any teaching resources and a small bottle of water on standby for dry mouth syndrome.

## 6. Dress to impress

Smart and well-groomed is key. Have your interview outfit ready the day before to reduce stress. Be you and be comfortable but consider professional attire to create a positive first impression. 

## 7. Be ready for questions

Organise your thoughts and prepare some clear responses to likely questions. Why do you want to teach? What can you bring to the profession? How will you manage the workload? Consider your skills and attributes. Expressing a desire to work with children is not enough! Remember this is a chance to sell yourself and prove to the interview panel your commitment to their training course and the teaching and learning profession. Don’t be afraid to indicate your strengths and consider your areas for development. This demonstrates a reflective mindset. 

## 8. Answer questions fully

Understandably, candidates are often nervous at interview and either say very little or talk too much! Ensure that your responses to questions provide interviewers with a full reply. Keep on track when answering a question and if you are unsure of how to answer — be honest and attempt to give a considered response. Be receptive to any feedback that you are given throughout. 

## 9. To say or not to say

Teaching is all about effective communication. Think about your verbal contributions — articulation, pronunciation, pace, tone, and pitch will provide an interview panel with a dialogue of interest suitable for the classroom. Non-verbal communication is just as important. Consider your body language and facial expression. Not always easy when you are nervous, but confidence and a warm smile speak volumes when you first meet someone, particularly if you are meeting through a screen.

## 10 . Showtime

Remember that you are ‘on show’ for the entire interview. Many providers interview in school settings. Make a positive first impression with reception and office personnel, teaching staff and children alike. Be friendly, attentive, and polite at all times and maintain that professional persona.

## 11. And finally…

…get a good night’s sleep the night before, eat well and stay hydrated on the day. Breathe, stay calm, be confident and positive and above all enjoy the enriching experience of interview. Your teacher training journey is about to begin!

Good Luck Everyone!

Commit message:

Add closing paragraph to the front matter
It's intended to provide a easy way to add a generic closing paragraph
to blog posts. When the front matter entry is omitted nothing is
rendered.

app/views/content/blog/11-top-tips-for-interview-success.md, after:

---
title: 11 top tips for interview success
author: Caroline Downing
date: "2021-12-06"
description: |-
  You've taken that first step in making an Initial Teacher Training
  application and providers have been in touch to offer you an interview. So,
  what next? Thorough preparation can make or break a successful interview.
  Here are my simple top ten winning tips for securing that Initial Teacher
  Training place.
images:
  interview:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/interview.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/interview.jpg"
    alt: "A teacher training candidate being interviewed by a provider sitting at opposite sides of a desk"
keywords:
  - becoming a teacher
  - applications
  - interviews
tags:
  - becoming a teacher
  - applications
closing_paragraph: enriching-the-lives-of-young-people
---

$interview$

_Caroline Downing is the Primary Programme Leader at the [Bedfordshire Schools' Training Partnership](https://bedsscitt.org.uk). Her responsibilities include interviewing applicants and assessing their potential to become successful classroom professionals. She believes the key to being offered that sought after training place lies in effective interview preparation._

## 1. Pre-interview 

Confirm your attendance to any interview invitation and pay attention to what is being asked of you on the day. Interview formats can vary. If in doubt, make a phone call to the provider to ask for clarification.

## 2. Professional dialogue 

Often email correspondence is your first line of professional dialogue with providers. Be mindful of using formal language to support your application. Text speak in emails may not go down too well! Follow the tone set by the provider in any written communication. 

## 3. Be informed

Know what you are applying for. Routes and training programmes differ, and you may have applied to several providers. Training provider websites will give you key information that you can refer to at interview. Make a note of any key personnel names and who to ask for on your arrival. This will give a positive first impression. You are applying to train to teach - invest some time finding out about The Teachers' Standards, Safeguarding in Schools and The National Curriculum. 

## 4. Remote or face-to-face

In times of COVID 19, interviews may take place via an online platform. Check that your camera and sound are working beforehand. Join the 'call' on time and consider your screen background beforehand. If you are travelling to an interview venue, allow yourself plenty of time on the day. Don’t assume you will be able to park directly outside. Some sites are large and will require you to walk some distance. If need be, do a practice run to reduce stress levels on the day.

## 5. Be organised

Have everything ready for the interview the night before. Bring any required documents and supporting materials together in a plastic wallet that you can hand over. Having additional copies readily available for providers sets the tone that you are a well-organised individual. Remember key equipment; a pen, face mask, any teaching resources and a small bottle of water on standby for dry mouth syndrome.

## 6. Dress to impress

Smart and well-groomed is key. Have your interview outfit ready the day before to reduce stress. Be you and be comfortable but consider professional attire to create a positive first impression. 

## 7. Be ready for questions

Organise your thoughts and prepare some clear responses to likely questions. Why do you want to teach? What can you bring to the profession? How will you manage the workload? Consider your skills and attributes. Expressing a desire to work with children is not enough! Remember this is a chance to sell yourself and prove to the interview panel your commitment to their training course and the teaching and learning profession. Don’t be afraid to indicate your strengths and consider your areas for development. This demonstrates a reflective mindset. 

## 8. Answer questions fully

Understandably, candidates are often nervous at interview and either say very little or talk too much! Ensure that your responses to questions provide interviewers with a full reply. Keep on track when answering a question and if you are unsure of how to answer — be honest and attempt to give a considered response. Be receptive to any feedback that you are given throughout. 

## 9. To say or not to say

Teaching is all about effective communication. Think about your verbal contributions — articulation, pronunciation, pace, tone, and pitch will provide an interview panel with a dialogue of interest suitable for the classroom. Non-verbal communication is just as important. Consider your body language and facial expression. Not always easy when you are nervous, but confidence and a warm smile speak volumes when you first meet someone, particularly if you are meeting through a screen.

## 10 . Showtime

Remember that you are ‘on show’ for the entire interview. Many providers interview in school settings. Make a positive first impression with reception and office personnel, teaching staff and children alike. Be friendly, attentive, and polite at all times and maintain that professional persona.

## 11. And finally…

…get a good night’s sleep the night before, eat well and stay hydrated on the day. Breathe, stay calm, be confident and positive and above all enjoy the enriching experience of interview. Your teacher training journey is about to begin!

Good Luck Everyone!
