app/views/content/blog/5-reasons-to-attend-a-train-to-teach-event.md, before:

---
title: 5 reasons to attend a Train to Teach event
date: "2021-08-26"
images:
  train_to_teach:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/train-to-teach.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/train-to-teach.jpg"
    alt: "A photograph of a busy event with banners and attendees having conversations with advisers"
description: |-
  Whether you’re ready to apply or it’s just an idea, here are five reasons why a Train to Teach event can help you on your journey to the classroom.
    
keywords:
  - train to teach events
  - becoming a teacher
  - applications
  - teacher training
tags:
  - becoming a teacher
  - teacher training advisers
  - train to teach events
  - applications
---

$train_to_teach$

If you’re interested in training to teach but not sure on your next steps, then our popular Train to Teach events are for you. Whether you’re ready to apply or it’s just an idea, here are five reasons why a Train to Teach event can help you on your journey to the classroom.

## 1. Save some time

A Train to Teach event offers you a one-stop shop of information and support.  There are a number of different zones you can visit where our expert advisers will help you understand the qualifications you need and the range of different ways you can train.  

Whether you’ve recently graduated or you’re looking to change your career, in as little as two hours you will be able to gain clarity and confidence in your steps to becoming a teacher.

## 2. Get answers tailored to your circumstances

We understand that everyone’s journey into the classroom is different and your questions may be unique to you and your circumstances. You may have questions about your eligibility or a query about the extra financial support available if you’re a parent or a carer. 

At a Train to Teach event we can answer all your questions and maybe some you didn’t know you had!  

## 3. Make connections

A Train to Teach event is a great way of making new connections. You can meet like-minded individuals on their teaching journey and stay in touch with each other through our [Aspiring Teacher Forum](https://www.facebook.com/groups/1357146377672255) or [Career Change to Teaching](https://www.facebook.com/groups/CareerChangetoTeaching) Facebook groups. 

You can also speak to teacher training providers for advice on how to find the right course for you, as well as meeting potential future course leaders or employers. These connections could help you in your journey to a rewarding career in teaching.

## 4. Meet the experts

At each of our events there are a range of experts to speak to including [Teacher Training Advisers](/teacher-training-advisers). Our advisers are former teachers with lots of experience, who know the application process and teacher training experience inside out. 

Sign up for your own adviser at one of our events and have a one-to-one conversation about everything from reassurance about how to stand at the front of a classroom to how to fund your training. The support won’t stop at the end of the event – they can give you as much or as little help as you need.

## 5. Chat with current teachers

You can have a one-to-one chat with a current teacher who can provide you with insight into what it is really like to train and to be a teacher. You may wish to ask them to describe their experiences including any fears they had when they started out and how they overcame these challenges. 

They can also talk about why they love teaching and how rewarding it is, giving you a balanced view and insight into what the life of a teacher is really like.

[Find a Train to Teach event near you.](/event-categories/train-to-teach-events)

Commit message:

Add closing paragraph to the front matter
It's intended to provide a easy way to add a generic closing paragraph
to blog posts. When the front matter entry is omitted nothing is
rendered.

app/views/content/blog/5-reasons-to-attend-a-train-to-teach-event.md, after:

---
title: 5 reasons to attend a Train to Teach event
date: "2021-08-26"
images:
  train_to_teach:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/train-to-teach.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/train-to-teach.jpg"
    alt: "A photograph of a busy event with banners and attendees having conversations with advisers"
description: |-
  Whether you’re ready to apply or it’s just an idea, here are five reasons why a Train to Teach event can help you on your journey to the classroom.
    
keywords:
  - train to teach events
  - becoming a teacher
  - applications
  - teacher training
tags:
  - becoming a teacher
  - teacher training advisers
  - train to teach events
  - applications
closing_paragraph: enriching-the-lives-of-young-people
---

$train_to_teach$

If you’re interested in training to teach but not sure on your next steps, then our popular Train to Teach events are for you. Whether you’re ready to apply or it’s just an idea, here are five reasons why a Train to Teach event can help you on your journey to the classroom.

## 1. Save some time

A Train to Teach event offers you a one-stop shop of information and support.  There are a number of different zones you can visit where our expert advisers will help you understand the qualifications you need and the range of different ways you can train.  

Whether you’ve recently graduated or you’re looking to change your career, in as little as two hours you will be able to gain clarity and confidence in your steps to becoming a teacher.

## 2. Get answers tailored to your circumstances

We understand that everyone’s journey into the classroom is different and your questions may be unique to you and your circumstances. You may have questions about your eligibility or a query about the extra financial support available if you’re a parent or a carer. 

At a Train to Teach event we can answer all your questions and maybe some you didn’t know you had!  

## 3. Make connections

A Train to Teach event is a great way of making new connections. You can meet like-minded individuals on their teaching journey and stay in touch with each other through our [Aspiring Teacher Forum](https://www.facebook.com/groups/1357146377672255) or [Career Change to Teaching](https://www.facebook.com/groups/CareerChangetoTeaching) Facebook groups. 

You can also speak to teacher training providers for advice on how to find the right course for you, as well as meeting potential future course leaders or employers. These connections could help you in your journey to a rewarding career in teaching.

## 4. Meet the experts

At each of our events there are a range of experts to speak to including [Teacher Training Advisers](/teacher-training-advisers). Our advisers are former teachers with lots of experience, who know the application process and teacher training experience inside out. 

Sign up for your own adviser at one of our events and have a one-to-one conversation about everything from reassurance about how to stand at the front of a classroom to how to fund your training. The support won’t stop at the end of the event – they can give you as much or as little help as you need.

## 5. Chat with current teachers

You can have a one-to-one chat with a current teacher who can provide you with insight into what it is really like to train and to be a teacher. You may wish to ask them to describe their experiences including any fears they had when they started out and how they overcame these challenges. 

They can also talk about why they love teaching and how rewarding it is, giving you a balanced view and insight into what the life of a teacher is really like.

[Find a Train to Teach event near you.](/event-categories/train-to-teach-events)
