app/views/content/blog/getting-ready-to-apply.md, before:

---
title: Getting ready to apply - 9 things you can do now
date: "2021-09-03"
author: Get Into Teaching
images:
  notepad:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/notepad.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/notepad.jpg"
description: |-
  Applications for teacher training courses starting in 2022 open on 12 October, but there is plenty you can be doing right now to get ready.
keywords:
  - teacher training
  - apply
  - qualifications
  - eligibility
  - support
  - teacher training adviser
  - TTA
  - course
  - references
tags:
  - becoming a teacher
  - teacher training advisers
  - train to teach events
  - applications
  - references
inset_text:
  still-time-to-apply:
    text: |-
      <p>There's still time to apply and start teacher training this September.</p>
      <p><a href="https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses">Find your postgraduate teacher training course now</a>.</p>
---

$notepad$

$still-time-to-apply$

Applications for teacher training courses starting in 2022 open on 12 October, but there is plenty you can be doing right now to get ready.

## 1. Check your eligibility

Before you apply for teacher training you’ll need to make sure you’re eligible. Although different training providers may have specific recruitment criteria, there are some basic eligibility requirements you’ll need to meet to become a teacher in England. [Check your eligibility](/steps-to-become-a-teacher).

## 2. Get personalised guidance to your inbox

Get one step closer to the classroom with guidance tailored to you, including how to get:

* a taste of teaching
* funding to train
* one-to-one support
* advice from trainees or newly qualified teachers

[Sign up](/mailinglist/signup/name).

## 3. Get a Teacher Training Adviser

An experienced teaching professional can help you if you're (one of the following):

* ready to get into teaching
* returning to teach at a secondary school in England and already have qualified teacher status (QTS)

[Get an adviser](/tta-service).

## 4. Research training courses

[Find postgraduate teacher training.](https://www.find-postgraduate-teacher-training.service.gov.uk/). You can search by location, training provider and subject to find the course best suited to you.

## 5. Reflect on (or get some) school experience

Demonstrating how any voluntary time you have spent in school has shaped your view of teaching is vital to a good application. If you haven’t managed to get some time in a school yet, some schools are offering the opportunity for candidates to undertake school experience both in school and virtually. You can search for schools and apply using our [Get School Experience](https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/) service.

If you’re an undergraduate student interested in teaching physics, maths, computing or modern languages, you might also be able to apply for some paid teaching experience. Find out how you might be eligible for a [teaching internship](/teaching-internship-providers).

## 6. Start lining up your references

You’ll need a couple of referees to provide references for your application. Now is a good time to start approaching people who might be able to provide these for you. Getting references in place is one of the most common causes of delay in the application process, so any preparation you can do now could speed things up considerably when you make your application.

## 7. Engage with the world of schools and teaching

Something that many teacher trainer providers will be looking for in an application or interview is an understanding of current issues and thinking in teaching. It’s worth following other teachers and education media outlets like [Schools Week](https://twitter.com/SchoolsWeek) and [TES](https://twitter.com/Tes_Institute) on social media. Teachers are very active on Twitter and share lots of helpful insights, tips and resources. You will soon find your own favourites, but we’d suggest looking at [ITTchat](https://twitter.com/ITTchat) or [Teacher Toolkit](https://twitter.com/TeacherToolkit) to get started.

## 8. Get some advice at an event

Our Train to Teach events will provide you with a wealth of information and help you turn questions to confidence on your journey to the classroom. At some of our Train to Teach events you can meet a whole range of local training providers; at others you’ll have the chance to put your questions to a panel of experts. Some events are in person and others replicate the experience online. [Book your place at a Train to Teach event](/events/about-train-to-teach-events).

## 9.  Join our support networks on social media

Our Facebook groups for [aspiring teachers](https://www.facebook.com/groups/1357146377672255/) and people thinking of a [career change to teaching](https://www.facebook.com/groups/CareerChangetoTeaching/) offer a really friendly, supportive place to connect with other people applying for teacher training and ask any questions you might have. Our Teacher Training Advisers are also on hand to give expert advice.

If you’re interested in enriching the lives of young people, find out more about how you can [become a teacher](/steps-to-become-a-teacher). Or find out what to expect in your [initial teacher training](/train-to-be-a-teacher/initial-teacher-training).

Commit message:

updating how to apply and blogs copy

app/views/content/blog/getting-ready-to-apply.md, after:

---
title: Getting ready to apply - 9 things you can do now
date: "2021-09-03"
author: Get Into Teaching
images:
  notepad:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/notepad.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/notepad.jpg"
description: |-
  Applications for teacher training courses starting in 2022 open on 12 October, but there is plenty you can be doing right now to get ready.
keywords:
  - teacher training
  - apply
  - qualifications
  - eligibility
  - support
  - teacher training adviser
  - TTA
  - course
  - references
tags:
  - becoming a teacher
  - teacher training advisers
  - train to teach events
  - applications
  - references
inset_text:
  still-time-to-apply:
    text: |-
      <p>There's still time to apply and start teacher training this September.</p>
      <p><a href="https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses">Find your postgraduate teacher training course now</a>.</p>
---

$notepad$

$still-time-to-apply$

Applications for teacher training courses starting in 2022 open on 12 October, but there is plenty you can be doing right now to get ready.

## 1. Check your eligibility

Before you apply for teacher training you’ll need to make sure you’re eligible. Although different training providers may have specific recruitment criteria, there are some basic eligibility requirements you’ll need to meet to become a teacher in England. [Check your eligibility](/steps-to-become-a-teacher).

## 2. Get personalised guidance to your inbox

Get one step closer to the classroom with guidance tailored to you, including how to get:

* a taste of teaching
* funding to train
* one-to-one support
* advice from trainees or newly qualified teachers

[Sign up](/mailinglist/signup/name).

## 3. Get a Teacher Training Adviser

An experienced teaching professional can help you if you're (one of the following):

* ready to get into teaching
* returning to teach at a secondary school in England and already have qualified teacher status (QTS)

[Get an adviser](/tta-service).

## 4. Research training courses

[Find postgraduate teacher training.](https://www.find-postgraduate-teacher-training.service.gov.uk/). You can search by location, training provider and subject to find the course best suited to you.

## 5. Reflect on (or get some) school experience

Demonstrating how any voluntary time you have spent in school has shaped your view of teaching is vital to a good application. If you haven’t managed to get some time in a school yet, some schools are offering the opportunity for candidates to undertake school experience both in school and virtually. You can search for schools and apply using our [Get School Experience](https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/) service.

If you’re an undergraduate student interested in teaching physics, maths, computing or modern languages, you might also be able to apply for some paid teaching experience. Find out how you might be eligible for a [teaching internship](/teaching-internship-providers).

## 6. Start lining up your references

You’ll need a couple of referees to provide references for your application. Now is a good time to start approaching people who might be able to provide these for you. When you apply, you'll need to submit your referees' details. If the training provider offers you a place, they'll contact your referees to find out more about you.

## 7. Engage with the world of schools and teaching

Something that many teacher trainer providers will be looking for in an application or interview is an understanding of current issues and thinking in teaching. It’s worth following other teachers and education media outlets like [Schools Week](https://twitter.com/SchoolsWeek) and [TES](https://twitter.com/Tes_Institute) on social media. Teachers are very active on Twitter and share lots of helpful insights, tips and resources. You will soon find your own favourites, but we’d suggest looking at [ITTchat](https://twitter.com/ITTchat) or [Teacher Toolkit](https://twitter.com/TeacherToolkit) to get started.

## 8. Get some advice at an event

Our Train to Teach events will provide you with a wealth of information and help you turn questions to confidence on your journey to the classroom. At some of our Train to Teach events you can meet a whole range of local training providers; at others you’ll have the chance to put your questions to a panel of experts. Some events are in person and others replicate the experience online. [Book your place at a Train to Teach event](/events/about-train-to-teach-events).

## 9.  Join our support networks on social media

Our Facebook groups for [aspiring teachers](https://www.facebook.com/groups/1357146377672255/) and people thinking of a [career change to teaching](https://www.facebook.com/groups/CareerChangetoTeaching/) offer a really friendly, supportive place to connect with other people applying for teacher training and ask any questions you might have. Our Teacher Training Advisers are also on hand to give expert advice.

If you’re interested in enriching the lives of young people, find out more about how you can [become a teacher](/steps-to-become-a-teacher). Or find out what to expect in your [initial teacher training](/train-to-be-a-teacher/initial-teacher-training).
