app/views/content/blog/how-to-ace-a-video-interview.md, before:

---
title: How to ace a video interview
date: "2021-04-06"
author: Anna Shirley
images:
  anna_shirley:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/anna-shirley.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/anna-shirley.jpg"
    alt: "A photograph of Sheffield SCITT communciations manager, Anna Shirley"
description: |-
  From logistics to presentation, Sheffield SCITT communications manager Anna Shirley shares her top tips for video interviews. 
keywords:
  - applications
  - interviews
  - video interviews
tags:
  - becoming a teacher
  - interviews
  - applications
---

$anna_shirley$

While some teacher training providers may be returning to face-to-face interviews, others are continuing to ask that interviews take place by video call. 

The [Sheffield SCITT](https://www.sheffieldscitt.org.uk/) has done virtual interviews this year, and we have put together a guide on how to smash a video interview!

## Logistics

* Make sure you have access to the software that the interviewers will be using. At The Sheffield SCITT we are using Zoom, for example.
* Test it out by making a video call to a friend to check your sound and speakers are working.
* Consider the best place in your house to set up for the interview. You want a spot you where you won’t be interrupted, with good lighting. Avoid positioning yourself right in front of a window otherwise we’ll end up with a lovely view of outside, but not of your face!
* Be mindful of your environment — remove anything from view that could potentially portray you in a negative way.
* If you can, hide any small children or pets away so that they can’t make any unexpected guest appearances.

## Presentation

Make sure you present yourself in a professional manner.

* Dress as you would for a face-to-face interview, in smart attire.
* Try to keep eye contact and look directly into the camera. This can be tricky via video, but it’ll really help your interviewers to engage with you.
* Have a print-out of your application or a list of your key points nearby. You can use it as a platform to spark ideas and prompts to keep the interview flowing well.

## Content

The points you should try to cover will be the same as in a face-to-face interview.

* It’s essential that you use your interview to demonstrate your passion to become a teacher.
* Clearly articulate the key reasons that you think you are suited to teaching.
* Draw on examples from any experience you have working with children, and use this to form the basis of your answers.
* If you are applying for secondary teaching, make sure you demonstrate a comprehensive knowledge of your subject area.
* You will be expected to answer subject-specific questions, so make sure you are well-equipped to fire off answers confidently.
* Be yourself and engage with the interviewer. And remember that your interview is a great opportunity for you to ask any questions that you have too.

Best of luck with your interview, and be assured that you are embarking on a truly rewarding, challenging and exciting career as a teacher.

Commit message:

Add closing paragraph to the front matter
It's intended to provide a easy way to add a generic closing paragraph
to blog posts. When the front matter entry is omitted nothing is
rendered.

app/views/content/blog/how-to-ace-a-video-interview.md, after:

---
title: How to ace a video interview
date: "2021-04-06"
author: Anna Shirley
images:
  anna_shirley:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/anna-shirley.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/anna-shirley.jpg"
    alt: "A photograph of Sheffield SCITT communciations manager, Anna Shirley"
description: |-
  From logistics to presentation, Sheffield SCITT communications manager Anna Shirley shares her top tips for video interviews. 
keywords:
  - applications
  - interviews
  - video interviews
tags:
  - becoming a teacher
  - interviews
  - applications
closing_paragraph: enriching-the-lives-of-young-people
---

$anna_shirley$

While some teacher training providers may be returning to face-to-face interviews, others are continuing to ask that interviews take place by video call. 

The [Sheffield SCITT](https://www.sheffieldscitt.org.uk/) has done virtual interviews this year, and we have put together a guide on how to smash a video interview!

## Logistics

* Make sure you have access to the software that the interviewers will be using. At The Sheffield SCITT we are using Zoom, for example.
* Test it out by making a video call to a friend to check your sound and speakers are working.
* Consider the best place in your house to set up for the interview. You want a spot you where you won’t be interrupted, with good lighting. Avoid positioning yourself right in front of a window otherwise we’ll end up with a lovely view of outside, but not of your face!
* Be mindful of your environment — remove anything from view that could potentially portray you in a negative way.
* If you can, hide any small children or pets away so that they can’t make any unexpected guest appearances.

## Presentation

Make sure you present yourself in a professional manner.

* Dress as you would for a face-to-face interview, in smart attire.
* Try to keep eye contact and look directly into the camera. This can be tricky via video, but it’ll really help your interviewers to engage with you.
* Have a print-out of your application or a list of your key points nearby. You can use it as a platform to spark ideas and prompts to keep the interview flowing well.

## Content

The points you should try to cover will be the same as in a face-to-face interview.

* It’s essential that you use your interview to demonstrate your passion to become a teacher.
* Clearly articulate the key reasons that you think you are suited to teaching.
* Draw on examples from any experience you have working with children, and use this to form the basis of your answers.
* If you are applying for secondary teaching, make sure you demonstrate a comprehensive knowledge of your subject area.
* You will be expected to answer subject-specific questions, so make sure you are well-equipped to fire off answers confidently.
* Be yourself and engage with the interviewer. And remember that your interview is a great opportunity for you to ask any questions that you have too.

Best of luck with your interview, and be assured that you are embarking on a truly rewarding, challenging and exciting career as a teacher.
