app/views/content/blog/how-to-fund-your-teacher-training.md, before:

---
title: How to fund your teacher training
date: "2020-11-06"
images:
  header_image:
    path: "media/images/content/hero-images/0013.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/0013.jpg"
    alt: "A photograph of a teacher teaching physics"
description: |-
  There are plenty of funding options available to support you during your teacher training year. You can access Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans regardless of whether or not you have an existing student loan and you will only begin to repay these once you're earning more than £27,295.
keywords:
  - salaries
  - salary
  - bursary
  - bursaries
  - funding
  - maintenance
  - loan
  - grant
  - tuition fee
  - financial support
  - student finance
  - scholarship
tags:
  - financial support
  - maintenance loans
  - funding
  - bursaries
  - salaries
---

$header_image$

_All funding amounts below are only correct for teacher training courses starting in autumn 2021. Funding levels for courses starting in 2022 will be updated once they are confirmed._

There are plenty of funding options available to support you during your teacher training year. You can access Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans regardless of whether or not you have an existing student loan and you will only begin to repay these once you're earning more than £27,295.

Extra financial support is available if you're a parent, have an adult dependant or a disability. This support does not need to be paid back.

And for some subjects, you may qualify for a tax-free bursary or scholarship.

The key to managing financially during your training year is careful planning and preparation. Our expert advisers can help you make a plan and find the best funding options for your circumstances.

> I'm doing primary which doesn't get a bursary but we still get student finance, and if you have children you'll also be eligible for extra help. I won't lie to you, it's a serious struggle for me at the moment as I have a mortgage etc, but no kids. But it's only one year so if you can find a way I'd go for it. Work out how much you NEED each month and look into the options available. It'll be difficult for sure, but worth it.
>
> Sophie Helen, Trainee Teacher

## Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans

Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans are available regardless of the subject you want to teach or your qualifications.

You can apply for a Tuition Fee Loan to cover the full cost of your course up to £9,250. Tuition Fee Loans aren't means-tested so regardless of your household income you should be able to claim the full amount for your course fees, and you won't have to pay up front.

A Maintenance Loan is available to help with living costs. All eligible trainees will qualify for at least the minimum amount, regardless of household income, and you could receive up to £12,382.

It doesn't matter if you already have a student loan — you can still apply for both of these loans without seeing your monthly repayments increase. You will only start making repayments when you earn over the threshold.[^1]

| Annual tax before income | Monthly repayment |
| ------------------------ | ----------------- |
| Up to £27,295            | £0                |
| £28,000                  | £5                |
| £30,000                  | £20               |
| £35,000                  | £58               |
| £40,000                  | £95               |

> I know the bursaries are a big selling point for some secondary subjects but a lot of people have coped without one. I spent years on my journey to becoming a teacher, going back to college when my children were very small then doing my degree full time and finally my teacher training. I didn’t get a bursary and if I had, it would have been a bonus but a lack of it certainly wouldn’t have stopped me going into teaching. Granted it will be more tricky without the safety net of the bursary but make some calls and do some checks before you give up entirely. Don’t ever let money stand in the way of your dreams. It’s a tough year financially but it’s worth it.
>
> Jacqui Lynne, Teacher

## Extra financial support

If you have children, a disability or an adult dependant, you could get:

* 85% of childcare costs of up to £179.62 a week (1 child) or up to £307.95 a week (2 or more children) [Childcare Grant](https://www.gov.uk/childcare-grant)
* up to £1,821 per year [Parents' Learning Allowance](https://www.gov.uk/parents-learning-allowance)
* [Universal Credit](https://www.gov.uk/universal-credit)
* [Disabled Students' Allowance](https://www.gov.uk/disabled-students-allowances-dsas)
* up to £3,190 per year [Adult Dependants' Grant](https://www.gov.uk/adult-dependants-grant)

### Student Finance Calculator

You can use the [student finance calculator](https://www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator) to estimate Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans and extra funding that may be available.

Please note this calculator is for trainees from England or the European Union (EU) undertaking a new course in the 2020 to 2021 and 2021 to 2022 academic years.

### How to apply

Once you've accepted your place on a non-salaried teacher training course, you can apply for Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans, Parents' Learning Allowance, Disabled Students' Allowance, Childcare Grants and Adult Dependants' Grant online via [Student Finance England](https://www.gov.uk/apply-online-for-student-finance) (SFE). Universal Credit is claimed via [GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/universal-credit/how-to-claim).

## Tax-free bursary or scholarship

Tax-free bursaries or scholarships of up to £26,000 are available for some subjects. Your eligibility, and the amount you can expect to receive, will depend on the subject you choose to teach and your degree classification or highest relevant academic qualification.

Find out more about [funding your training](/funding-your-training).

> It is doable! I’m doing my primary PGCE (no bursary). I’m a single parent of a 4yr old boy… I live off maintenance loan and work at weekends… don’t get me wrong its tough but I know it’s only a year and will be all worth it!
>
> Sam Lauren, Trainee Teacher

### Further help and support

Our expert advisers can help you to make a plan and find the best funding options for your circumstances. [Register to use the service](/tta-service).

[^1]:
    If you do not already have a student loan, or you took one out on or after 1 September 2012, you are only required to make repayments when you are earning over £27,295. Your repayments will not increase if you take out a loan for teacher training.

    If you took out a student loan before 1 September 2012, you are only required to make repayments when you are earning over [£19,895](https://www.gov.uk/repaying-your-student-loan/when-you-start-repaying). Your repayments will not increase if you take out a loan for teacher training.

    The table above shows your monthly repayments if you've no previous student loan or if you have a loan taken out from 2012 or later. If you have a student loan from before 2012, your monthly repayments will be different from the above.

Commit message:

Add closing paragraph to the front matter
It's intended to provide a easy way to add a generic closing paragraph
to blog posts. When the front matter entry is omitted nothing is
rendered.

app/views/content/blog/how-to-fund-your-teacher-training.md, after:

---
title: How to fund your teacher training
date: "2020-11-06"
images:
  header_image:
    path: "media/images/content/hero-images/0013.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/0013.jpg"
    alt: "A photograph of a teacher teaching physics"
description: |-
  There are plenty of funding options available to support you during your teacher training year. You can access Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans regardless of whether or not you have an existing student loan and you will only begin to repay these once you're earning more than £27,295.
keywords:
  - salaries
  - salary
  - bursary
  - bursaries
  - funding
  - maintenance
  - loan
  - grant
  - tuition fee
  - financial support
  - student finance
  - scholarship
tags:
  - financial support
  - maintenance loans
  - funding
  - bursaries
  - salaries
closing_paragraph: enriching-the-lives-of-young-people
---

$header_image$

_All funding amounts below are only correct for teacher training courses starting in autumn 2021. Funding levels for courses starting in 2022 will be updated once they are confirmed._

There are plenty of funding options available to support you during your teacher training year. You can access Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans regardless of whether or not you have an existing student loan and you will only begin to repay these once you're earning more than £27,295.

Extra financial support is available if you're a parent, have an adult dependant or a disability. This support does not need to be paid back.

And for some subjects, you may qualify for a tax-free bursary or scholarship.

The key to managing financially during your training year is careful planning and preparation. Our expert advisers can help you make a plan and find the best funding options for your circumstances.

> I'm doing primary which doesn't get a bursary but we still get student finance, and if you have children you'll also be eligible for extra help. I won't lie to you, it's a serious struggle for me at the moment as I have a mortgage etc, but no kids. But it's only one year so if you can find a way I'd go for it. Work out how much you NEED each month and look into the options available. It'll be difficult for sure, but worth it.
>
> Sophie Helen, Trainee Teacher

## Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans

Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans are available regardless of the subject you want to teach or your qualifications.

You can apply for a Tuition Fee Loan to cover the full cost of your course up to £9,250. Tuition Fee Loans aren't means-tested so regardless of your household income you should be able to claim the full amount for your course fees, and you won't have to pay up front.

A Maintenance Loan is available to help with living costs. All eligible trainees will qualify for at least the minimum amount, regardless of household income, and you could receive up to £12,382.

It doesn't matter if you already have a student loan — you can still apply for both of these loans without seeing your monthly repayments increase. You will only start making repayments when you earn over the threshold.[^1]

| Annual tax before income | Monthly repayment |
| ------------------------ | ----------------- |
| Up to £27,295            | £0                |
| £28,000                  | £5                |
| £30,000                  | £20               |
| £35,000                  | £58               |
| £40,000                  | £95               |

> I know the bursaries are a big selling point for some secondary subjects but a lot of people have coped without one. I spent years on my journey to becoming a teacher, going back to college when my children were very small then doing my degree full time and finally my teacher training. I didn’t get a bursary and if I had, it would have been a bonus but a lack of it certainly wouldn’t have stopped me going into teaching. Granted it will be more tricky without the safety net of the bursary but make some calls and do some checks before you give up entirely. Don’t ever let money stand in the way of your dreams. It’s a tough year financially but it’s worth it.
>
> Jacqui Lynne, Teacher

## Extra financial support

If you have children, a disability or an adult dependant, you could get:

* 85% of childcare costs of up to £179.62 a week (1 child) or up to £307.95 a week (2 or more children) [Childcare Grant](https://www.gov.uk/childcare-grant)
* up to £1,821 per year [Parents' Learning Allowance](https://www.gov.uk/parents-learning-allowance)
* [Universal Credit](https://www.gov.uk/universal-credit)
* [Disabled Students' Allowance](https://www.gov.uk/disabled-students-allowances-dsas)
* up to £3,190 per year [Adult Dependants' Grant](https://www.gov.uk/adult-dependants-grant)

### Student Finance Calculator

You can use the [student finance calculator](https://www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator) to estimate Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans and extra funding that may be available.

Please note this calculator is for trainees from England or the European Union (EU) undertaking a new course in the 2020 to 2021 and 2021 to 2022 academic years.

### How to apply

Once you've accepted your place on a non-salaried teacher training course, you can apply for Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans, Parents' Learning Allowance, Disabled Students' Allowance, Childcare Grants and Adult Dependants' Grant online via [Student Finance England](https://www.gov.uk/apply-online-for-student-finance) (SFE). Universal Credit is claimed via [GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/universal-credit/how-to-claim).

## Tax-free bursary or scholarship

Tax-free bursaries or scholarships of up to £26,000 are available for some subjects. Your eligibility, and the amount you can expect to receive, will depend on the subject you choose to teach and your degree classification or highest relevant academic qualification.

Find out more about [funding your training](/funding-your-training).

> It is doable! I’m doing my primary PGCE (no bursary). I’m a single parent of a 4yr old boy… I live off maintenance loan and work at weekends… don’t get me wrong its tough but I know it’s only a year and will be all worth it!
>
> Sam Lauren, Trainee Teacher

### Further help and support

Our expert advisers can help you to make a plan and find the best funding options for your circumstances. [Register to use the service](/tta-service).

[^1]:
    If you do not already have a student loan, or you took one out on or after 1 September 2012, you are only required to make repayments when you are earning over £27,295. Your repayments will not increase if you take out a loan for teacher training.

    If you took out a student loan before 1 September 2012, you are only required to make repayments when you are earning over [£19,895](https://www.gov.uk/repaying-your-student-loan/when-you-start-repaying). Your repayments will not increase if you take out a loan for teacher training.

    The table above shows your monthly repayments if you've no previous student loan or if you have a loan taken out from 2012 or later. If you have a student loan from before 2012, your monthly repayments will be different from the above.
