app/views/content/blog/how-to-apply-for-teacher-training.md, before:

---
title: How to apply for teacher training
subtitle: A step-by-step-guide
date: "2021-01-25"
images:
  header_image:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/applying-for-teacher.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/applying-for-teacher.jpg"
    alt: "A stock photograph of someone filling out an application form"
description: |-
  From effective preparation, to submitting your application, we’ve broken down the whole process into manageable steps, so you can see exactly what’s involved.
keywords:
  - teacher training
  - apply
  - course
  - qualifications
  - eligibility
  - attend
  - event
  - personal statement
  - support
  - adviser
  - TTA
tags:
  - teacher training advisers
  - personal statements
  - qualifications
  - applying for teacher training
---

$header_image$

From effective preparation, to submitting your application, we’ve broken down the whole process into manageable steps, so you can see exactly what’s involved.

## Preparing to apply

### 1. Check your qualifications

Although different training providers may have specific recruitment criteria, there are some basic eligibility requirements you’ll need to meet to become a qualified teacher in England. In summary, you’ll need or be working towards:

* a degree
* GCSE grade C / 4 in English and maths — and a science subject for primary trainees

You can find out more about [overseas qualifications](/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student).

### 2. Get one-to-one support from our teaching experts

Our teacher training advisers are all experienced teachers ready to support your journey into teaching. [Register with us](/tta-service) to be allocated your very own adviser.

### 3. Attend a virtual teacher training event

Our free events are the perfect opportunity to find out more about teacher training and receive advice from experts and training providers in your local area. [Find an event](/events).

## Applying for teacher training

### 1. Find teacher training courses

Use the Department for Education’s [find postgraduate teacher training courses](https://www.find-postgraduate-teacher-training.service.gov.uk/) service to search for courses in England. You’ll be able to search by location, training provider and subject. When you apply, you have three choices for teacher training providers. It’s a good idea to select three choices; the more flexible you are, the more likely it is that you’ll secure a place.

### 2. Write your personal statement

The personal statement is your chance to make your application stand out by discussing your experience, knowledge and skills, and demonstrating how they’re transferable to the classroom. [Read our advice on how to make yourself stand out](/tips-on-applying-for-teacher-training).

### 3. Arrange your references

Your referees can tell training providers about your qualities and abilities, so it’s important they know you well. Find out more about the requirements for references in our [tips on applying for teacher training](/tips-on-applying-for-teacher-training).

### 4. Apply for teacher training

You're now ready to submit your application! You can apply using a GOV.UK service called [Apply for teacher training](https://www.gov.uk/apply-for-teacher-training).

Commit message:

Add closing paragraph to the front matter
It's intended to provide a easy way to add a generic closing paragraph
to blog posts. When the front matter entry is omitted nothing is
rendered.

app/views/content/blog/how-to-apply-for-teacher-training.md, after:

---
title: How to apply for teacher training
subtitle: A step-by-step-guide
date: "2021-01-25"
images:
  header_image:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/applying-for-teacher.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/applying-for-teacher.jpg"
    alt: "A stock photograph of someone filling out an application form"
description: |-
  From effective preparation, to submitting your application, we’ve broken down the whole process into manageable steps, so you can see exactly what’s involved.
keywords:
  - teacher training
  - apply
  - course
  - qualifications
  - eligibility
  - attend
  - event
  - personal statement
  - support
  - adviser
  - TTA
tags:
  - teacher training advisers
  - personal statements
  - qualifications
  - applying for teacher training
closing_paragraph: enriching-the-lives-of-young-people
---

$header_image$

From effective preparation, to submitting your application, we’ve broken down the whole process into manageable steps, so you can see exactly what’s involved.

## Preparing to apply

### 1. Check your qualifications

Although different training providers may have specific recruitment criteria, there are some basic eligibility requirements you’ll need to meet to become a qualified teacher in England. In summary, you’ll need or be working towards:

* a degree
* GCSE grade C / 4 in English and maths — and a science subject for primary trainees

You can find out more about [overseas qualifications](/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student).

### 2. Get one-to-one support from our teaching experts

Our teacher training advisers are all experienced teachers ready to support your journey into teaching. [Register with us](/tta-service) to be allocated your very own adviser.

### 3. Attend a virtual teacher training event

Our free events are the perfect opportunity to find out more about teacher training and receive advice from experts and training providers in your local area. [Find an event](/events).

## Applying for teacher training

### 1. Find teacher training courses

Use the Department for Education’s [find postgraduate teacher training courses](https://www.find-postgraduate-teacher-training.service.gov.uk/) service to search for courses in England. You’ll be able to search by location, training provider and subject. When you apply, you have three choices for teacher training providers. It’s a good idea to select three choices; the more flexible you are, the more likely it is that you’ll secure a place.

### 2. Write your personal statement

The personal statement is your chance to make your application stand out by discussing your experience, knowledge and skills, and demonstrating how they’re transferable to the classroom. [Read our advice on how to make yourself stand out](/tips-on-applying-for-teacher-training).

### 3. Arrange your references

Your referees can tell training providers about your qualities and abilities, so it’s important they know you well. Find out more about the requirements for references in our [tips on applying for teacher training](/tips-on-applying-for-teacher-training).

### 4. Apply for teacher training

You're now ready to submit your application! You can apply using a GOV.UK service called [Apply for teacher training](https://www.gov.uk/apply-for-teacher-training).
