app/views/content/blog/nqt-to-head-of-biology.md, before:

---
title: From NQT to head of biology in 2 years
date: "2019-11-18"
author: Sarah Fisher
images:
  q-sarah:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/stories-sarah-f.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/stories-sarah-f.jpg"
description: |-
  Sarah Fisher shares her story of how she became a department head in a subject she loves.
keywords:
  - life as a teacher
  - day in the life
  - classroom
tags:
  - career progression
---

Since this blog post was first published, the term newly qualified teacher (NQT) has been replaced with early career teacher (ECT). This describes a teacher in their first two years of teaching.

Two years after qualifying as a teacher, I progressed to head of biology, climbing the career ladder. I always had an inkling that teaching was the right direction.

## I knew teaching was for me

From an early age, I knew a teaching career was for me. I could not imagine working a typical nine-to-five desk job. Every day in teaching brings a new challenge and new situations, which is what makes the job so exciting.

When your pupils have those 'light bulb' moments, hearing the sudden 'So that's how it works!' and seeing them take your subject into A level and beyond makes the job so worthwhile.

## My career development

I am extremely proud of my teaching achievements and career progression so far. The encouragement and support from my head of faculty really helped; they saw the potential in me and I'm so grateful for that opportunity.

With my leadership skills, my department has gone from strength to strength. We have managed to increase uptake of students from a class of 20 A level students to 50. This was a great achievement, and I could not have done this without the support of my colleagues and the leadership courses I attended.

I also act as a teaching and learning mentor, which allows me to work with staff from all departments to enhance and develop their teaching and learning.

I love being able to work with teachers of all backgrounds, experienced to newly qualified, sharing good practice and developing whole-school strategies. I am currently facilitating an NQT leadership programme for teachers across the borough, which I am thoroughly enjoying.

## My advice

I would recommend hard work, maintaining your love for the job, and a want to bring about positive change to young peoples' lives. Undeniably, teaching is hard work – but the knowledge that you have helped to motivate young people and helped shape their future brings more satisfaction than any other job I can think of.

We’re here to answer your questions and provide advice about teacher training, whether you’re just thinking about teaching or you’re ready to apply. [Find out more about how we can help](/help-and-advice).

Commit message:

Update blog articles with inset text
We want to call out the first paragraph of these blog articles as inset text on
the page to make it clearer to the user that the terminology has changed.

app/views/content/blog/nqt-to-head-of-biology.md, after:

---
title: From NQT to head of biology in 2 years
date: "2019-11-18"
author: Sarah Fisher
images:
  q-sarah:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/stories-sarah-f.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/stories-sarah-f.jpg"
description: |-
  Sarah Fisher shares her story of how she became a department head in a subject she loves.
keywords:
  - life as a teacher
  - day in the life
  - classroom
tags:
  - career progression
inset_text:
  nqt-replaced-with-ect:
    text: |-
      Since this blog post was first published, the term newly qualified teacher (NQT) has been replaced with early career teacher (ECT). This describes a teacher in their first two years of teaching.
---

$nqt-replaced-with-ect$

Two years after qualifying as a teacher, I progressed to head of biology, climbing the career ladder. I always had an inkling that teaching was the right direction.

## I knew teaching was for me

From an early age, I knew a teaching career was for me. I could not imagine working a typical nine-to-five desk job. Every day in teaching brings a new challenge and new situations, which is what makes the job so exciting.

When your pupils have those 'light bulb' moments, hearing the sudden 'So that's how it works!' and seeing them take your subject into A level and beyond makes the job so worthwhile.

## My career development

I am extremely proud of my teaching achievements and career progression so far. The encouragement and support from my head of faculty really helped; they saw the potential in me and I'm so grateful for that opportunity.

With my leadership skills, my department has gone from strength to strength. We have managed to increase uptake of students from a class of 20 A level students to 50. This was a great achievement, and I could not have done this without the support of my colleagues and the leadership courses I attended.

I also act as a teaching and learning mentor, which allows me to work with staff from all departments to enhance and develop their teaching and learning.

I love being able to work with teachers of all backgrounds, experienced to newly qualified, sharing good practice and developing whole-school strategies. I am currently facilitating an NQT leadership programme for teachers across the borough, which I am thoroughly enjoying.

## My advice

I would recommend hard work, maintaining your love for the job, and a want to bring about positive change to young peoples' lives. Undeniably, teaching is hard work – but the knowledge that you have helped to motivate young people and helped shape their future brings more satisfaction than any other job I can think of.

We’re here to answer your questions and provide advice about teacher training, whether you’re just thinking about teaching or you’re ready to apply. [Find out more about how we can help](/help-and-advice).
