app/views/content/blog/why-dont-you-teach-miss.md, before:

---
title: Why don't you teach, Miss?
date: "2019-12-02"
author: Emma Maskell
images:
  q-emma:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/stories-emma.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/stories-emma.jpg"
description: |-
  Emma Maskell shares her route into teaching
keywords:
  - life as a teacher
  - day in the life
  - classroom
tags:
  - life as a teacher
---

$q-emma$

I am a trainee at Carshalton Boys College and have a degree in biomedical sciences. I have spent time as a fitness instructor, private tutor and school science technician. So with some gentle encouragement from colleagues, I finally decided to become a qualified teacher. I did this through the School Direct (salaried) course.

I'd been in quite a few lessons in more of a teaching assistant capacity, just going and helping out, and I really enjoyed that. Some of the teachers said to me, 'Why don't you teach?' and some of the kids said, 'Why doesn't Miss become a teacher?', and I thought, 'Why not? I can do this'.

We all have mentors assigned to us. They are there to support you with anything that you need, check on your progress and just help out. And also my fellow trainees and I are a close group; everyone's friendly and really supportive of everyone else.

You don't know how kids are going to be when you go into a classroom, or how they're going to react to you. The difference in my teaching and confidence now from when I first started has improved immensely.

When you see kids that actually understand something after you've taught them, it does make it all worthwhile. It's really rewarding – I know it's a cliché, but it is. If you've got the passion and you're committed to it, then definitely go ahead.

We’re here to answer your questions and provide advice about teacher training, whether you’re just thinking about teaching or you’re ready to apply. [Find out more about how we can help](/help-and-advice).

Commit message:

Change to why don't you teach post
Co-authored-by: EllieNodder <94541493+EllieNodder@users.noreply.github.com>

app/views/content/blog/why-dont-you-teach-miss.md, after:

---
title: Why don't you teach, Miss?
date: "2019-12-02"
author: Emma Maskell
images:
  q-emma:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/stories-emma.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/stories-emma.jpg"
description: |-
  Emma Maskell explains how her experience helping out as a teaching assistant inspired her to change careers and train to be a teacher.
keywords:
  - life as a teacher
  - day in the life
  - classroom
tags:
  - life as a teacher
---

$q-emma$

I am a trainee at Carshalton Boys College and have a degree in biomedical sciences. I have spent time as a fitness instructor, private tutor and school science technician. So with some gentle encouragement from colleagues, I finally decided to become a qualified teacher. I did this through the School Direct (salaried) course.

I'd been in quite a few lessons in more of a teaching assistant capacity, just going and helping out, and I really enjoyed that. Some of the teachers said to me, 'Why don't you teach?' and some of the kids said, 'Why doesn't Miss become a teacher?', and I thought, 'Why not? I can do this'.

We all have mentors assigned to us. They are there to support you with anything that you need, check on your progress and just help out. And also my fellow trainees and I are a close group; everyone's friendly and really supportive of everyone else.

You don't know how kids are going to be when you go into a classroom, or how they're going to react to you. The difference in my teaching and confidence now from when I first started has improved immensely.

When you see kids that actually understand something after you've taught them, it does make it all worthwhile. It's really rewarding – I know it's a cliché, but it is. If you've got the passion and you're committed to it, then definitely go ahead.

We’re here to answer your questions and provide advice about teacher training, whether you’re just thinking about teaching or you’re ready to apply. [Find out more about how we can help](/help-and-advice).
