app/views/content/blog/working-to-your-own-beat.md, before:

---
title: Working to your own beat
date: "2021-11-22"
images:
  staff-room:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/staff-room.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/staff-room.jpg"
    alt: "Three teachers chatting in a school staff room"
description: |-
  A recent survey has revealed the extent to which people feel they can be their true selves in the workplace.
keywords:
  - becoming a teacher
tags:
  - becoming a teacher
---

$staff-room$

We recently surveyed over 2,000 of the working population in England to explore their views on what they can bring to the workplace and the extent to which people feel they can be their true selves.

Over one in five (22%) surveyed don’t feel they can be their true self in their current job or career; rising to nearly a third (30%) of Gen Z working adults[^1] – those aged between 18 and 23 – with more than four fifths (85%) of this age group saying they feel more at ease expressing their individuality outside of work[^2].

Yet more than two thirds (69%) of all the working adults surveyed agree that expressing their individuality at work would allow them to be more satisfied with the job they’re doing[^3], and an overwhelming (90%) feel it’s important to be able to express their unique individuality in daily life[^4]. 

To coincide with the research findings, a new trend and insight-driven think-piece titled ‘[Future Perspective: Why Gen Z could be great for the classroom](https://leoconsults.com/docs/Why-GenZ-Could-Be-Great-For-The-Classroom.pdf)’ has been released by independent cultural forecaster Leo Sanders. In it, Leo explores five current cultural and popular trends which are actively influencing the lives of Generation Z, examining what sets this generation apart and why the talents today’s undergraduates possess could align with a career in teaching.

Commenting on the findings, English teacher Chloe Carrubba, 24, said:

> Like other jobs, teaching can be hard work, but I can bring my whole self to work, and nothing beats knowing that you’re having a lasting impact on young people’s lives. 
>
> What I’m most proud of is being able to bring all elements of myself to my career. Teaching allows me to encompass my life and educational experience and bring it into a classroom which, hopefully, nurtures and educates young people in an inspiring, dynamic, and ultimately human way.
>
> Chloe Carrubba

---

*Research conducted by Censuswide, on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign. Censuswide surveyed 2,448 respondents aged 18+ from the working population in England (excluding teachers and trainee teachers). The survey was carried out between 29th September and 6th October 2021. Censuswide abide by and employ members of the Market Research Society which is based on the ESOMAR principles.*

[^1]:
    This finding combines respondents who said “No, not really” and “No, not at all”.

[^2]:
    This finding combines respondents who said “Yes, always” and “Yes, sometimes”

[^3]:
    This finding combines respondents who said, “Somewhat agree” and “Strongly agree”

[^4]:
    This finding combines respondents who said, “Very important” and “Somewhat important”

Commit message:

Add closing paragraph to the front matter
It's intended to provide a easy way to add a generic closing paragraph
to blog posts. When the front matter entry is omitted nothing is
rendered.

app/views/content/blog/working-to-your-own-beat.md, after:

---
title: Working to your own beat
date: "2021-11-22"
images:
  staff-room:
    path: "media/images/content/blog/staff-room.jpg"
    thumbnail_path: "media/images/content/blog/thumbnails/staff-room.jpg"
    alt: "Three teachers chatting in a school staff room"
description: |-
  A recent survey has revealed the extent to which people feel they can be their true selves in the workplace.
keywords:
  - becoming a teacher
tags:
  - becoming a teacher
closing_paragraph: enriching-the-lives-of-young-people
---

$staff-room$

We recently surveyed over 2,000 of the working population in England to explore their views on what they can bring to the workplace and the extent to which people feel they can be their true selves.

Over one in five (22%) surveyed don’t feel they can be their true self in their current job or career; rising to nearly a third (30%) of Gen Z working adults[^1] – those aged between 18 and 23 – with more than four fifths (85%) of this age group saying they feel more at ease expressing their individuality outside of work[^2].

Yet more than two thirds (69%) of all the working adults surveyed agree that expressing their individuality at work would allow them to be more satisfied with the job they’re doing[^3], and an overwhelming (90%) feel it’s important to be able to express their unique individuality in daily life[^4]. 

To coincide with the research findings, a new trend and insight-driven think-piece titled ‘[Future Perspective: Why Gen Z could be great for the classroom](https://leoconsults.com/docs/Why-GenZ-Could-Be-Great-For-The-Classroom.pdf)’ has been released by independent cultural forecaster Leo Sanders. In it, Leo explores five current cultural and popular trends which are actively influencing the lives of Generation Z, examining what sets this generation apart and why the talents today’s undergraduates possess could align with a career in teaching.

Commenting on the findings, English teacher Chloe Carrubba, 24, said:

> Like other jobs, teaching can be hard work, but I can bring my whole self to work, and nothing beats knowing that you’re having a lasting impact on young people’s lives. 
>
> What I’m most proud of is being able to bring all elements of myself to my career. Teaching allows me to encompass my life and educational experience and bring it into a classroom which, hopefully, nurtures and educates young people in an inspiring, dynamic, and ultimately human way.
>
> Chloe Carrubba

---

*Research conducted by Censuswide, on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign. Censuswide surveyed 2,448 respondents aged 18+ from the working population in England (excluding teachers and trainee teachers). The survey was carried out between 29th September and 6th October 2021. Censuswide abide by and employ members of the Market Research Society which is based on the ESOMAR principles.*

[^1]:
    This finding combines respondents who said “No, not really” and “No, not at all”.

[^2]:
    This finding combines respondents who said “Yes, always” and “Yes, sometimes”

[^3]:
    This finding combines respondents who said, “Somewhat agree” and “Strongly agree”

[^4]:
    This finding combines respondents who said, “Very important” and “Somewhat important”
