app/views/content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas.md, before:

---
title: Return to England after teaching overseas
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0014.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
description: |-
  Return to England after teaching overseas and bring your skills and experience back to an English classroom. Get support to make your transition easier.
related_content:
    Salaries and benefits of teaching in England : "/salaries-and-benefits"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/learn-adviser-promo
navigation: 20.15
navigation_title: Return to England after teaching overseas
navigation_description: Bring your international skills and experience back to an English classroom and return to teach in England.
date: "2020-04-07"
accordion:
  numbered: true
  content_after_accordion:
    partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/after-accordion
  steps:
    Check your qualifications:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/check-your-qualifications
    Find your next role:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/find-your-next-role
    Get help if you teach a shortage subject:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/support-for-teachers-of-shortage-subjects
    Get ready to apply:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/get-ready-to-apply
    Read up on changes to English education:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/read-up-on-changes-to-english-education
    Get started on your personal and professional admin:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/get-started-on-your-personal-and-professional-admin
    Research visas and immigration:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/research-visas-and-immigration
keywords:
  - International
  - International returner
  - Returners
  - Return
  - Abroad
  - Back
  - vacancies
  - vacancy
  - jobs
  - network
  - interview
  - ofsted
  - ofsted framework
  - types of school
  - school types
  - teacher standards
  - teachers standards
  - standards
  - chartered college of teaching
---

Are you a UK-trained teacher and UK citizen currently teaching abroad? Our
children and young people need your international skills, experience and
perspective.

If you're thinking about coming home to teach, we want to help.

If you are a non-UK citizen interested in teaching or training to teach in
England, please read our [guidance for international teachers](/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas) or
[guidance for international trainees](/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student). 

## Return to teach in England: step by step

Commit message:

Add related content entry back to blog post

app/views/content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas.md, after:

---
title: Return to England after teaching overseas
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0014.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
description: |-
  Return to England after teaching overseas and bring your skills and experience back to an English classroom. Get support to make your transition easier.
related_content:
    Salaries and benefits of teaching in England : "/salaries-and-benefits"
    Returning to teaching with international experience : "/blog/returning-to-teaching-with-international-experience"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/learn-adviser-promo
navigation: 20.15
navigation_title: Return to England after teaching overseas
navigation_description: Bring your international skills and experience back to an English classroom and return to teach in England.
date: "2020-04-07"
accordion:
  numbered: true
  content_after_accordion:
    partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/after-accordion
  steps:
    Check your qualifications:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/check-your-qualifications
    Find your next role:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/find-your-next-role
    Get help if you teach a shortage subject:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/support-for-teachers-of-shortage-subjects
    Get ready to apply:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/get-ready-to-apply
    Read up on changes to English education:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/read-up-on-changes-to-english-education
    Get started on your personal and professional admin:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/get-started-on-your-personal-and-professional-admin
    Research visas and immigration:
      partial: content/non-uk-teachers/return-to-england-after-teaching-overseas/research-visas-and-immigration
keywords:
  - International
  - International returner
  - Returners
  - Return
  - Abroad
  - Back
  - vacancies
  - vacancy
  - jobs
  - network
  - interview
  - ofsted
  - ofsted framework
  - types of school
  - school types
  - teacher standards
  - teachers standards
  - standards
  - chartered college of teaching
---

Are you a UK-trained teacher and UK citizen currently teaching abroad? Our
children and young people need your international skills, experience and
perspective.

If you're thinking about coming home to teach, we want to help.

If you are a non-UK citizen interested in teaching or training to teach in
England, please read our [guidance for international teachers](/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas) or
[guidance for international trainees](/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student). 

## Return to teach in England: step by step
