app/views/content/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas.md, before:

---
title: "Teach in England if you trained overseas"
description: |-
  Teach in England if you're a qualified teacher from outside the UK. Explore the benefits of teaching in England and join a world class education system.
related_content:
    Career progression stories: "/blog/tag/career-progression"
    Salaries and benefits of teaching in England : "/salaries-and-benefits"
    A day in the life of a teacher in England : "/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-teacher"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/get-adviser-promo
navigation: 20.20
navigation_title: Teach in England if you trained overseas
navigation_description: Find out how you can bring your skills and perspective to an English classroom if you're a qualified teacher from outside the UK.
date: "2021-05-27"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0002.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
keywords:
  - International
  - Overseas
  - Foreign
  - Nationality
  - Residency
  - EEA
  - Canada
  - New Zealand
  - Switzerland
  - USA
  - Visa
  - Skilled worker visa
  - EU
  - EU Settlement Scheme
  - NARIC
  - UK NARIC
  - ENIC
  - UK ENIC
  - European Network of Information Centre
  - National Recognition Information Centre for the United Kingdom
  - PhD
  - Immigration
  - Ireland
  - Irish
  - Common Travel Area
  - Student Visa
  - Home Office
  - Graduate Visa
  - Youth Mobility Scheme
  - Japan
  - Monaco
  - Hong Kong
  - Republic of Korea
  - Taiwan
  - Family Visa
  - UK Ancestry Visa
  - Abroad
  - Europe
  - European
  - Settlement Scheme
---

Teach in England and you’ll benefit from working in a world-class education system.

You’ll earn a [competitive salary](/salaries-and-benefits), get supported in your professional development and have varied job opportunities.

You could also consider teaching in [Wales](https://educators.wales), [Scotland](https://teachinscotland.scot/) or [Northern Ireland](https://www.education-ni.gov.uk/articles/initial-teacher-education-courses-northern-ireland).

Not qualified as a teacher yet? Find out [how to train to teach in England as an international applicant](/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student). If you don't want to come to England to train, but would like to gain a professional teaching qualification which is equivalent to English qualified teacher status, you should consider [international qualified teacher status (iQTS)](/non-uk-teachers/international-qualified-teacher-status).

## What you need to start teaching

To teach in England you need:

* teaching skills and experience
* to pass criminal and professional safeguarding checks (these will be organised by your employer)
* to [get the right visa or status](#get-the-right-visa-or-status)

It is also helpful to have a teaching qualification from your own or another non-UK country, or to get '[qualified teacher status](#consider-getting-qualified-teacher-status)'.

## Get the right visa or status

You'll need to [get the right visa or status to work in the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration).

Many teaching job offers allow you to apply for a ‘skilled worker visa’. You may also be eligible for another type of visa.

Alternatively, you may have a pre-existing right to work in the UK, such as settled or pre-settled status under the [EU Settlement Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/settled-status-eu-citizens-families) or [indefinite leave to remain in the UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/indefinite-leave-to-remain-in-the-uk).

[If you're an Irish citizen you do not need a visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/common-travel-area-guidance).

## Consider getting qualified teacher status

[You need 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) to teach in many schools in England](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk).

It's not a requirement in all [types of schools](https://www.gov.uk/types-of-school), such as academy schools, free schools, private schools and independent schools. However, having QTS can help your application.

If you’re a qualified teacher from outside the UK you can [work as a teacher in England for up to 4 years without QTS](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/recruit-teachers-from-overseas#employing-overseas-teachers-without-qts-the-4-year-rule).

[Apply for QTS if you trained outside the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk).

## Search for a job

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/?utm_source=int_teacher_recruitment&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=AY21-22">Search for a teaching <span>job</span></a>
</p>

## Talk to an adviser

You can get one-to-one support if you have [qualified teacher status (QTS)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk) and want to teach secondary chemistry, computing, maths, modern foreign languages or physics. Get help with:

* the application process, such as writing a personal statement and preparing for an interview
* accessing courses to [improve your subject knowledge](/train-to-be-a-teacher/subject-knowledge-enhancement)
* finding [teaching vacancies](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/)

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="/tta-service">Get an <span>adviser</span></a>
</p>

## Find out what salary you can earn

Schools have some flexibility on [salary](/salaries-and-benefits). It varies by region and your level of skill, experience and qualifications.

There are [specific salary requirements for a skilled worker visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration).

## Learn about life as a teacher in England

[Read other teachers’ stories](/blog) and research the [English curriculum](https://www.gov.uk/national-curriculum) and [teachers’ standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teachers-standards).

## Contact
The Department for Education does not administer teacher training courses or appoint teachers, so we cannot help with individual applications to training providers or schools.

However, for help with the information on this page, you can email us at international.teacherrecruitment@education.gov.uk.

Commit message:

Include visa and immigration help desk info on int. teacher page
Include visa and immigration help desk info on int. teacher page

app/views/content/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas.md, after:

---
title: "Teach in England if you trained overseas"
description: |-
  Teach in England if you're a qualified teacher from outside the UK. Explore the benefits of teaching in England and join a world class education system.
related_content:
    Career progression stories: "/blog/tag/career-progression"
    Salaries and benefits of teaching in England : "/salaries-and-benefits"
    A day in the life of a teacher in England : "/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-teacher"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/get-adviser-promo
navigation: 20.20
navigation_title: Teach in England if you trained overseas
navigation_description: Find out how you can bring your skills and perspective to an English classroom if you're a qualified teacher from outside the UK.
date: "2021-05-27"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0002.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
keywords:
  - International
  - Overseas
  - Foreign
  - Nationality
  - Residency
  - EEA
  - Canada
  - New Zealand
  - Switzerland
  - USA
  - Visa
  - Skilled worker visa
  - EU
  - EU Settlement Scheme
  - NARIC
  - UK NARIC
  - ENIC
  - UK ENIC
  - European Network of Information Centre
  - National Recognition Information Centre for the United Kingdom
  - PhD
  - Immigration
  - Ireland
  - Irish
  - Common Travel Area
  - Student Visa
  - Home Office
  - Graduate Visa
  - Youth Mobility Scheme
  - Japan
  - Monaco
  - Hong Kong
  - Republic of Korea
  - Taiwan
  - Family Visa
  - UK Ancestry Visa
  - Abroad
  - Europe
  - European
  - Settlement Scheme
---

Teach in England and you’ll benefit from working in a world-class education system.

You’ll earn a [competitive salary](/salaries-and-benefits), get supported in your professional development and have varied job opportunities.

You could also consider teaching in [Wales](https://educators.wales), [Scotland](https://teachinscotland.scot/) or [Northern Ireland](https://www.education-ni.gov.uk/articles/initial-teacher-education-courses-northern-ireland).

Not qualified as a teacher yet? Find out [how to train to teach in England as an international applicant](/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student). If you don't want to come to England to train, but would like to gain a professional teaching qualification which is equivalent to English qualified teacher status, you should consider [international qualified teacher status (iQTS)](/non-uk-teachers/international-qualified-teacher-status).

## What you need to start teaching

To teach in England you need:

* teaching skills and experience
* to pass criminal and professional safeguarding checks (these will be organised by your employer)
* to [get the right visa or status](#get-the-right-visa-or-status)

It is also helpful to have a teaching qualification from your own or another non-UK country, or to get '[qualified teacher status](#consider-getting-qualified-teacher-status)'.

## Get the right visa or status

If you’re not sure about your immigration status, you can [check if you need a UK visa](https://www.gov.uk/check-uk-visa). You can also [contact UK Visas and Immigration for help](https://www.gov.uk/contact-ukvi-inside-outside-uk).

You can apply for a ‘skilled worker visa’ once you have been offered a teaching job at certain schools in England. [Check our guidance on visas and immigration](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration) to understand which schools can sponsor a skilled worker visa. 

You may also be eligible for another type of visa, or you may have a pre-existing right to work in the UK, such as settled or pre-settled status under the [EU Settlement Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/settled-status-eu-citizens-families) or [indefinite leave to remain in the UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/indefinite-leave-to-remain-in-the-uk).

[If you're an Irish citizen you do not need a visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/common-travel-area-guidance).

## Consider getting qualified teacher status

[You need 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) to teach in many schools in England](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk).

It's not a requirement in all [types of schools](https://www.gov.uk/types-of-school), such as academy schools, free schools, private schools and independent schools. However, having QTS can help your application.

If you’re a qualified teacher from outside the UK you can [work as a teacher in England for up to 4 years without QTS](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/recruit-teachers-from-overseas#employing-overseas-teachers-without-qts-the-4-year-rule).

[Apply for QTS if you trained outside the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk).

## Search for a job

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/?utm_source=int_teacher_recruitment&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=AY21-22">Search for a teaching <span>job</span></a>
</p>

## Talk to an adviser

You can get one-to-one support if you have [qualified teacher status (QTS)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk) and want to teach secondary chemistry, computing, maths, modern foreign languages or physics. Get help with:

* the application process, such as writing a personal statement and preparing for an interview
* accessing courses to [improve your subject knowledge](/train-to-be-a-teacher/subject-knowledge-enhancement)
* finding [teaching vacancies](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/)

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="/tta-service">Get an <span>adviser</span></a>
</p>

## Find out what salary you can earn

Schools have some flexibility on [salary](/salaries-and-benefits). It varies by region and your level of skill, experience and qualifications.

There are [specific salary requirements for a skilled worker visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration).

## Learn about life as a teacher in England

[Read other teachers’ stories](/blog) and research the [English curriculum](https://www.gov.uk/national-curriculum) and [teachers’ standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teachers-standards).

## Contact
The Department for Education does not administer teacher training courses or appoint teachers, so we cannot help with individual applications to training providers or schools.

However, for help with the information on this page, you can email us at international.teacherrecruitment@education.gov.uk.
