app/views/content/non-uk-teachers/ukraine.md, before:

---
title: "Ukrainian teachers and trainees coming to the UK"
description: |-
  Advice for Ukrainian refugees who wish to teach or train to teach in England.
related_content:
    Get support training to teach if you're disabled: "/funding-and-support/if-youre-disabled"
    Teach in England if you trained overseas : "/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas"
    Who do you want to teach? : "/train-to-be-a-teacher/who-do-you-want-to-teach"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/adviser-promo-apply
navigation: 20.15
navigation_title: Ukrainian teachers and trainees coming to the UK
navigation_description: Find information and advice for Ukrainian citizens seeking teaching jobs and training places in England.
date: "2022-06-24"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0003.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
right_column:
keywords:
  - International
  - Overseas
  - Foreign
  - Nationality
  - Visa
  - Skilled worker visa
  - NARIC
  - UK NARIC
  - ENIC
  - UK ENIC
  - European Network of Information Centre
  - National Recognition Information Centre for the United Kingdom
  - Immigration
  - Student Visa
  - Home Office
  - Abroad
  - Europe
  - European
  - Statement
  - Comparability
---

Overseas teachers enrich the lives of students and add value to schools and the wider community. The [Department for Education (DfE)](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/department-for-education) wishes to assist Ukrainian refugees in any way we can, and we support and encourage schools and training providers to recruit Ukrainian teachers and teacher trainees. 

## General information

If you're coming to the UK from Ukraine, [check what you need to do before you travel and what to do after you arrive](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/move-to-the-uk-if-youre-from-ukraine).

### Check the status of your visa

If you are in the UK on the [Ukraine Family Scheme visa](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-ukraine-family-scheme-visa), the [Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-visa-under-the-ukraine-sponsorship-scheme) or the [Ukraine Extension Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-stay-in-the-uk-under-the-ukraine-extension-scheme), you already have the right to work as a teacher or train to be a teacher in the UK. You are also eligible to apply for financial support if you choose to train to teach.

If you’re not sure of the status of your visa, check:

* [Ukrainian nationals in the UK: visa support](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/ukrainian-nationals-in-the-uk-visa-support)
* [UK visa support for Ukrainian nationals](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/support-for-family-members-of-british-nationals-in-ukraine-and-ukrainian-nationals-in-ukraine-and-the-uk)
* [Apply to stay in the UK under the Ukraine Extension Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-stay-in-the-uk-under-the-ukraine-extension-scheme)

If you are already in the UK under a [different type of visa](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/ukrainian-nationals-in-the-uk-visa-support) (for example, a visitor or seasonal worker visa) you can apply to the [Ukraine Extension Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-stay-in-the-uk-under-the-ukraine-extension-scheme). Depending on your personal circumstances, you could also apply for a [skilled worker visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration) (to work as a teacher) or [student visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/train-to-teach-in-england-non-uk-applicants/train-to-teach-in-england-if-youre-a-non-uk-citizen#visa) (to train as a teacher). 

You will need to meet the eligibility requirements for these types of visas and you should be aware that time spent in the UK under the Ukraine Extension Scheme and the student visa does not count towards an application for permanent settlement. Time spent in the UK under the skilled worker visa does count towards such an application. 

### Useful documentation for teachers and trainee teachers


For safeguarding reasons, schools will assess your suitability to teach from a range of different sources, including:


* 2 references from previous employers
* your complete employment history
* evidence of your professional standing in Ukraine – for example, documentation from the [Ministry of Education and Science](https://mon.gov.ua/ua) showing you are qualified and have no sanctions against you as a teacher
* a criminal record check

Teacher training providers will ask for:

* evidence that applicants for teacher training have a bachelor’s degree from a university (non-UK or in the UK)
* a criminal record check

You can apply to the [Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine](https://vytiah.mvs.gov.ua/app/landing) for a criminal record check, which will be emailed to you. You can then contact the [Ukrainian Embassy in the UK](https://uk.mfa.gov.ua/en) for a translation of the criminal record check and a letter confirming its validity.

We understand it might not be possible to provide all this evidence. However, it’s helpful to show schools and training providers you have made every effort to do so. They can then reach a decision about your suitability, looking at the evidence available. 

### Help proving your professional qualification to training providers and employers

UK ENIC can give you a [statement of comparability](https://www.enic.org.uk/Qualifications/SOC/Default.aspx) showing how your academic and professional qualifications compare to their English equivalent. However, you will need scans or photographs of your original documents. [Get help with qualifications and applications for teacher training](#get-help-with-international-qualifications).

## Teach in England 

To get a job as a teacher, you will need:

* teaching skills and experience you can demonstrate to an employer
* to pass criminal and professional safeguarding checks, including an enhanced [Disclosure and Barring Service](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/disclosure-and-barring-service) check (these will be organised by your employer)
* a high standard of written and spoken English – for example, [British Council B2 level](https://www.britishcouncil.es/en/english/levels/b2) 

[Find out more about teaching in England if you trained overseas](/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas). 

### Apply for a teaching job

To find a teaching job, you must apply to individual schools (not DfE). Use the [Teaching Vacancies](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/) service to search for jobs by region, subject specialism and age group. This service also lists [teaching assistant](https://nationalcareers.service.gov.uk/job-profiles/teaching-assistant) and education support roles. It can be helpful to gain experience of the English education system working in a teaching assistant or support role before you apply for teaching jobs. 

For a short-term unpaid placement, you can [request school experience in a primary or secondary school in England](https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/). 

Most teaching vacancies are advertised in March, April or the first half of May, with jobs starting at the beginning of the school year in September. Set up a [Teaching Vacancies](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/) job alert to be updated about opportunities throughout the year.


### Qualified teacher status

English teacher training leads to [qualified teacher status (QTS)](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/qualified-teacher-status-qts). However, if you’re a qualified teacher from outside the UK, [you can work as a teacher in England for up to 4 years without QTS](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/apply-for-qualified-teacher-status-qts-if-you-teach-outside-the-uk/routes-to-qualified-teacher-status-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk#qts-exemption-for-teachers-from-outside-the-uk). 

After that, QTS is a legal requirement to teach in many English schools, and considered desirable for teachers in the majority of schools in England.

### Assessment only QTS
You can work in an English school and, alongside your job, apply for assessment only QTS. This means you apply to an [English teacher training provider](/assessment-only-providers) who will assess if you meet the standards for English QTS. DfE will make funding available for candidates who start assessment only courses at the start of the new school year in September 2022. Check assessment only training providers for more information about eligibility and funding.

### Apply for QTS in England (from spring 2023)

From spring 2023, qualified teachers from Ukraine will be able to apply to the Teaching Regulation Agency for QTS (if they meet the criteria) without paying a fee to a training provider. [Find out more about the way QTS will be awarded to teachers from overseas](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/awarding-qualified-teacher-status-to-overseas-teachers).

### Salaries and benefits

Your salary as a teacher depends on whether you have QTS, and your level of experience. The salary for a teacher without QTS will generally start at £18,419 outside London. [Find out more about salaries and benefits](/salaries-and-benefits) for teachers in England.

## Train to teach in England

If you are resident in the UK under:

* [the Ukraine Family Scheme visa](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-ukraine-family-scheme-visa)
* [the Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-visa-under-the-ukraine-sponsorship-scheme)
* [the Ukraine Extension Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-stay-in-the-uk-under-the-ukraine-extension-scheme)

From 1 August 2022, you will:

* have the right to apply to train to teach
* have the right to apply for a [student loan, bursary, scholarship](/funding-and-support) or [advanced learner loan](https://www.gov.uk/advanced-learner-loan)
* pay the same training fees as UK applicants (up to £9,250 for a full-time course)

If you are not in the UK under one of these schemes, [find out about switching to a different type of visa](#check-the-status-of-your-visa) so you can train to teach. Not all visas will give you the right to apply for a student loan. 

Teacher training in England takes 1 year of full-time study and leads to QTS. At the end of your training you can apply for paid teaching jobs.

### What you’ll need

To train to teach children aged 11 to 18 in secondary school, you’ll need:

* a bachelor’s degree (this can be from a university outside the UK)
* to meet a standard in English and maths equivalent to a grade 4 GCSE

To teach children aged 3 to 11 in primary school, you will also need to meet a standard in physics, chemistry or biology equivalent to a grade 4 GCSE.

A GCSE is an academic qualification awarded for exams in England, usually taken at age 16.

You will also need to:

* have the health and physical capacity to train to teach
* undergo safeguarding and criminal record checks carried out by your training provider or employer
* show your training provider you meet their standards for maths and English (you’ll usually have to show you’ve passed an English language test, for example, the [International English Language Testing System (IELTS)](https://www.ielts.org/), [Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL)](https://www.ets.org/toefl), or [C2 Proficiency, formerly known as Cambridge English: Proficiency (CPE)](https://www.cambridgeenglish.org/exams-and-tests/proficiency/))

### Get help applying for teacher training

To get advice about training to teach, you can:

* call +44 (0) 800 389 2500, Monday to Friday between 8:30am and 5:30pm (UK local time) – calls are free within the UK but will otherwise be charged at your standard rate
* use the live chat service at the bottom of this page
* [sign up to get a dedicated adviser](https://adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/) – you’ll be asked for your phone number, email and location so a teacher training adviser can call you back in your time zone

### Get help with international qualifications

If your qualifications come from a non-UK institution, your teacher training provider may want to see a [statement of comparability](https://enic.org.uk/Qualifications/SOC/Default.aspx) from UK ENIC. A statement of comparability proves that your school and university qualifications are the same standard as UK GCSEs and a UK undergraduate degree.

Call us on +44 800 389 2500 for:

* guidance on the UK equivalents of your qualifications
* a free statement of comparability, once you’ve submitted your application, if your provider asks for this
* advice about what to do if you do not have English, maths and science qualifications of grade 4 GCSE standard


### Find and apply for a teacher training course

[Find postgraduate teacher training courses](https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses) that lead to QTS by region, subject and age group.
 
### If you do not have a university degree

If you do not have a degree, you can [apply to study a 3 to 4 year undergraduate course](https://www.ucas.com/postgraduate/teacher-training/applying-teacher-training/find-teacher-training-programmes) in England which combines a teaching degree with QTS. When you complete your studies, you’ll be able to apply for jobs as a teacher in England.

The [UK Council for International Student Affairs](https://www.ukcisa.org.uk/) has lots of helpful information about studying at an English university.

### Further information

[Find out more about training to be a teacher](/train-to-be-a-teacher) in England. 

Find out what financial support is available to [fund your training](/funding-and-support) if you are in the UK under the [Ukraine Family Scheme visa](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-ukraine-family-scheme-visa), the [Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-visa-under-the-ukraine-sponsorship-scheme) or the [Ukraine Extension Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-stay-in-the-uk-under-the-ukraine-extension-scheme).

## Tips for schools and training providers

### Visas and immigration

Most Ukrainian refugees will not need to be sponsored for a skilled worker or student visa. [Find out more about visa schemes for Ukrainian refugees, allowing them to live, work and study in the UK](#check-the-status-of-your-visa).

### Qualifications

Schools should assess the qualifications and experience of Ukrainian teachers in the same way as other overseas applicants, bearing in mind the exemption provided by the [4-year rule](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/recruit-teachers-from-overseas#employing-overseas-teachers-without-qts-the-4-year-rule).

UK ENIC can provide a [statement of comparability](https://www.enic.org.uk/Qualifications/SOC/Default.aspx) to applicants showing how their academic and professional qualifications compare to the English equivalents.

### Safeguarding

Schools must adopt robust recruitment procedures preventing overseas applicants who are unsuitable to work with children from securing a role in school.
Schools must be guided by the [statutory guidance on safeguarding children and safer recruitment](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/keeping-children-safe-in-education--2). They should also carry out [additional checks related to international recruitment and training](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/recruit-teachers-from-overseas#safeguarding-checks-for-teachers-from-overseas).  

Given documentation may be difficult for refugees to provide, we expect schools to draw on a varying range of sources on a case by case basis, depending on the individual in question. It is good practice to carry out a risk assessment recording the evidence you have gathered to reach your decision. 

## Useful links

[Move to the UK if you’re coming from Ukraine](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/move-to-the-uk-if-youre-from-ukraine)

[Welcome guide for Ukrainians in the UK](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1086088/Ukraine_Welcome_Guide.pdf)

[Ukrainians in the UK](https://www.ukrainiansintheuk.info/index.htm) – an online encyclopaedia

[The Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain (AUGB)](https://www.augb.co.uk/) – including a list of [Ukrainian community schools in the UK](https://www.augb.co.uk/about-us-and-our-community/ukrainian-community-schools-in-great-britain)


## Contact

For help and further information, please email us at teach.inengland@education.gov.uk.

Commit message:

Add still time to apply message to top of page

app/views/content/non-uk-teachers/ukraine.md, after:

---
title: "Ukrainian teachers and trainees coming to the UK"
description: |-
  Advice for Ukrainian refugees who wish to teach or train to teach in England.
related_content:
    Get support training to teach if you're disabled: "/funding-and-support/if-youre-disabled"
    Teach in England if you trained overseas : "/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas"
    Who do you want to teach? : "/train-to-be-a-teacher/who-do-you-want-to-teach"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/adviser-promo-apply
navigation: 20.15
navigation_title: Ukrainian teachers and trainees coming to the UK
navigation_description: Find information and advice for Ukrainian citizens seeking teaching jobs and training places in England.
date: "2022-06-24"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0003.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
right_column:
keywords:
  - International
  - Overseas
  - Foreign
  - Nationality
  - Visa
  - Skilled worker visa
  - NARIC
  - UK NARIC
  - ENIC
  - UK ENIC
  - European Network of Information Centre
  - National Recognition Information Centre for the United Kingdom
  - Immigration
  - Student Visa
  - Home Office
  - Abroad
  - Europe
  - European
  - Statement
  - Comparability
inset_text:
  still-time-to-apply:
    text: |-
      <p>There's still time to apply and start teacher training this September.</p>
      <p><a href="https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses">Find your postgraduate teacher training course now</a>.</p>
---

$still-time-to-apply$

Overseas teachers enrich the lives of students and add value to schools and the wider community. The [Department for Education (DfE)](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/department-for-education) wishes to assist Ukrainian refugees in any way we can, and we support and encourage schools and training providers to recruit Ukrainian teachers and teacher trainees. 

## General information

If you're coming to the UK from Ukraine, [check what you need to do before you travel and what to do after you arrive](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/move-to-the-uk-if-youre-from-ukraine).

### Check the status of your visa

If you are in the UK on the [Ukraine Family Scheme visa](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-ukraine-family-scheme-visa), the [Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-visa-under-the-ukraine-sponsorship-scheme) or the [Ukraine Extension Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-stay-in-the-uk-under-the-ukraine-extension-scheme), you already have the right to work as a teacher or train to be a teacher in the UK. You are also eligible to apply for financial support if you choose to train to teach.

If you’re not sure of the status of your visa, check:

* [Ukrainian nationals in the UK: visa support](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/ukrainian-nationals-in-the-uk-visa-support)
* [UK visa support for Ukrainian nationals](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/support-for-family-members-of-british-nationals-in-ukraine-and-ukrainian-nationals-in-ukraine-and-the-uk)
* [Apply to stay in the UK under the Ukraine Extension Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-stay-in-the-uk-under-the-ukraine-extension-scheme)

If you are already in the UK under a [different type of visa](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/ukrainian-nationals-in-the-uk-visa-support) (for example, a visitor or seasonal worker visa) you can apply to the [Ukraine Extension Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-stay-in-the-uk-under-the-ukraine-extension-scheme). Depending on your personal circumstances, you could also apply for a [skilled worker visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration) (to work as a teacher) or [student visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/train-to-teach-in-england-non-uk-applicants/train-to-teach-in-england-if-youre-a-non-uk-citizen#visa) (to train as a teacher). 

You will need to meet the eligibility requirements for these types of visas and you should be aware that time spent in the UK under the Ukraine Extension Scheme and the student visa does not count towards an application for permanent settlement. Time spent in the UK under the skilled worker visa does count towards such an application. 

### Useful documentation for teachers and trainee teachers


For safeguarding reasons, schools will assess your suitability to teach from a range of different sources, including:


* 2 references from previous employers
* your complete employment history
* evidence of your professional standing in Ukraine – for example, documentation from the [Ministry of Education and Science](https://mon.gov.ua/ua) showing you are qualified and have no sanctions against you as a teacher
* a criminal record check

Teacher training providers will ask for:

* evidence that applicants for teacher training have a bachelor’s degree from a university (non-UK or in the UK)
* a criminal record check

You can apply to the [Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine](https://vytiah.mvs.gov.ua/app/landing) for a criminal record check, which will be emailed to you. You can then contact the [Ukrainian Embassy in the UK](https://uk.mfa.gov.ua/en) for a translation of the criminal record check and a letter confirming its validity.

We understand it might not be possible to provide all this evidence. However, it’s helpful to show schools and training providers you have made every effort to do so. They can then reach a decision about your suitability, looking at the evidence available. 

### Help proving your professional qualification to training providers and employers

UK ENIC can give you a [statement of comparability](https://www.enic.org.uk/Qualifications/SOC/Default.aspx) showing how your academic and professional qualifications compare to their English equivalent. However, you will need scans or photographs of your original documents. [Get help with qualifications and applications for teacher training](#get-help-with-international-qualifications).

## Teach in England 

To get a job as a teacher, you will need:

* teaching skills and experience you can demonstrate to an employer
* to pass criminal and professional safeguarding checks, including an enhanced [Disclosure and Barring Service](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/disclosure-and-barring-service) check (these will be organised by your employer)
* a high standard of written and spoken English – for example, [British Council B2 level](https://www.britishcouncil.es/en/english/levels/b2) 

[Find out more about teaching in England if you trained overseas](/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas). 

### Apply for a teaching job

To find a teaching job, you must apply to individual schools (not DfE). Use the [Teaching Vacancies](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/) service to search for jobs by region, subject specialism and age group. This service also lists [teaching assistant](https://nationalcareers.service.gov.uk/job-profiles/teaching-assistant) and education support roles. It can be helpful to gain experience of the English education system working in a teaching assistant or support role before you apply for teaching jobs. 

For a short-term unpaid placement, you can [request school experience in a primary or secondary school in England](https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/). 

Most teaching vacancies are advertised in March, April or the first half of May, with jobs starting at the beginning of the school year in September. Set up a [Teaching Vacancies](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/) job alert to be updated about opportunities throughout the year.


### Qualified teacher status

English teacher training leads to [qualified teacher status (QTS)](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/qualified-teacher-status-qts). However, if you’re a qualified teacher from outside the UK, [you can work as a teacher in England for up to 4 years without QTS](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/apply-for-qualified-teacher-status-qts-if-you-teach-outside-the-uk/routes-to-qualified-teacher-status-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk#qts-exemption-for-teachers-from-outside-the-uk). 

After that, QTS is a legal requirement to teach in many English schools, and considered desirable for teachers in the majority of schools in England.

### Assessment only QTS
You can work in an English school and, alongside your job, apply for assessment only QTS. This means you apply to an [English teacher training provider](/assessment-only-providers) who will assess if you meet the standards for English QTS. DfE will make funding available for candidates who start assessment only courses at the start of the new school year in September 2022. Check assessment only training providers for more information about eligibility and funding.

### Apply for QTS in England (from spring 2023)

From spring 2023, qualified teachers from Ukraine will be able to apply to the Teaching Regulation Agency for QTS (if they meet the criteria) without paying a fee to a training provider. [Find out more about the way QTS will be awarded to teachers from overseas](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/awarding-qualified-teacher-status-to-overseas-teachers).

### Salaries and benefits

Your salary as a teacher depends on whether you have QTS, and your level of experience. The salary for a teacher without QTS will generally start at £18,419 outside London. [Find out more about salaries and benefits](/salaries-and-benefits) for teachers in England.

## Train to teach in England

If you are resident in the UK under:

* [the Ukraine Family Scheme visa](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-ukraine-family-scheme-visa)
* [the Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-visa-under-the-ukraine-sponsorship-scheme)
* [the Ukraine Extension Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-stay-in-the-uk-under-the-ukraine-extension-scheme)

From 1 August 2022, you will:

* have the right to apply to train to teach
* have the right to apply for a [student loan, bursary, scholarship](/funding-and-support) or [advanced learner loan](https://www.gov.uk/advanced-learner-loan)
* pay the same training fees as UK applicants (up to £9,250 for a full-time course)

If you are not in the UK under one of these schemes, [find out about switching to a different type of visa](#check-the-status-of-your-visa) so you can train to teach. Not all visas will give you the right to apply for a student loan. 

Teacher training in England takes 1 year of full-time study and leads to QTS. At the end of your training you can apply for paid teaching jobs.

### What you’ll need

To train to teach children aged 11 to 18 in secondary school, you’ll need:

* a bachelor’s degree (this can be from a university outside the UK)
* to meet a standard in English and maths equivalent to a grade 4 GCSE

To teach children aged 3 to 11 in primary school, you will also need to meet a standard in physics, chemistry or biology equivalent to a grade 4 GCSE.

A GCSE is an academic qualification awarded for exams in England, usually taken at age 16.

You will also need to:

* have the health and physical capacity to train to teach
* undergo safeguarding and criminal record checks carried out by your training provider or employer
* show your training provider you meet their standards for maths and English (you’ll usually have to show you’ve passed an English language test, for example, the [International English Language Testing System (IELTS)](https://www.ielts.org/), [Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL)](https://www.ets.org/toefl), or [C2 Proficiency, formerly known as Cambridge English: Proficiency (CPE)](https://www.cambridgeenglish.org/exams-and-tests/proficiency/))

### Get help applying for teacher training

To get advice about training to teach, you can:

* call +44 (0) 800 389 2500, Monday to Friday between 8:30am and 5:30pm (UK local time) – calls are free within the UK but will otherwise be charged at your standard rate
* use the live chat service at the bottom of this page
* [sign up to get a dedicated adviser](https://adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/) – you’ll be asked for your phone number, email and location so a teacher training adviser can call you back in your time zone

### Get help with international qualifications

If your qualifications come from a non-UK institution, your teacher training provider may want to see a [statement of comparability](https://enic.org.uk/Qualifications/SOC/Default.aspx) from UK ENIC. A statement of comparability proves that your school and university qualifications are the same standard as UK GCSEs and a UK undergraduate degree.

Call us on +44 800 389 2500 for:

* guidance on the UK equivalents of your qualifications
* a free statement of comparability, once you’ve submitted your application, if your provider asks for this
* advice about what to do if you do not have English, maths and science qualifications of grade 4 GCSE standard


### Find and apply for a teacher training course

[Find postgraduate teacher training courses](https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses) that lead to QTS by region, subject and age group.
 
### If you do not have a university degree

If you do not have a degree, you can [apply to study a 3 to 4 year undergraduate course](https://www.ucas.com/postgraduate/teacher-training/applying-teacher-training/find-teacher-training-programmes) in England which combines a teaching degree with QTS. When you complete your studies, you’ll be able to apply for jobs as a teacher in England.

The [UK Council for International Student Affairs](https://www.ukcisa.org.uk/) has lots of helpful information about studying at an English university.

### Further information

[Find out more about training to be a teacher](/train-to-be-a-teacher) in England. 

Find out what financial support is available to [fund your training](/funding-and-support) if you are in the UK under the [Ukraine Family Scheme visa](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-ukraine-family-scheme-visa), the [Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-visa-under-the-ukraine-sponsorship-scheme) or the [Ukraine Extension Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-stay-in-the-uk-under-the-ukraine-extension-scheme).

## Tips for schools and training providers

### Visas and immigration

Most Ukrainian refugees will not need to be sponsored for a skilled worker or student visa. [Find out more about visa schemes for Ukrainian refugees, allowing them to live, work and study in the UK](#check-the-status-of-your-visa).

### Qualifications

Schools should assess the qualifications and experience of Ukrainian teachers in the same way as other overseas applicants, bearing in mind the exemption provided by the [4-year rule](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/recruit-teachers-from-overseas#employing-overseas-teachers-without-qts-the-4-year-rule).

UK ENIC can provide a [statement of comparability](https://www.enic.org.uk/Qualifications/SOC/Default.aspx) to applicants showing how their academic and professional qualifications compare to the English equivalents.

### Safeguarding

Schools must adopt robust recruitment procedures preventing overseas applicants who are unsuitable to work with children from securing a role in school.
Schools must be guided by the [statutory guidance on safeguarding children and safer recruitment](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/keeping-children-safe-in-education--2). They should also carry out [additional checks related to international recruitment and training](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/recruit-teachers-from-overseas#safeguarding-checks-for-teachers-from-overseas).  

Given documentation may be difficult for refugees to provide, we expect schools to draw on a varying range of sources on a case by case basis, depending on the individual in question. It is good practice to carry out a risk assessment recording the evidence you have gathered to reach your decision. 

## Useful links

[Move to the UK if you’re coming from Ukraine](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/move-to-the-uk-if-youre-from-ukraine)

[Welcome guide for Ukrainians in the UK](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1086088/Ukraine_Welcome_Guide.pdf)

[Ukrainians in the UK](https://www.ukrainiansintheuk.info/index.htm) – an online encyclopaedia

[The Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain (AUGB)](https://www.augb.co.uk/) – including a list of [Ukrainian community schools in the UK](https://www.augb.co.uk/about-us-and-our-community/ukrainian-community-schools-in-great-britain)


## Contact

For help and further information, please email us at teach.inengland@education.gov.uk.
