app/views/content/international-qualified-teacher-status/_after-accordion.md, before:

## Further information

Learn more about [iQTS policy](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/international-qualified-teacher-status-iqts/introducing-the-international-qualified-teacher-status-iqts-pilot) and [iQTS Teachers’ Standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/international-qualified-teacher-status-teachers-standards).

Learn more about [other routes to qualified teacher status (QTS) and teaching in England](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/apply-for-qualified-teacher-status-qts-if-you-teach-outside-the-uk#apply-to-the-teaching-regulation-agency-tra).

[Find more help and guidance if you'd like to teach in England](/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas).

If you already live in the UK, you should consider [applying for teacher training leading to QTS in England](/steps-to-become-a-teacher).

This guidance relates to teaching in England. Different rules  apply to [teaching in Wales,](https://www.ewc.wales/site/index.php/en/registration/practitioners-trained-outside-wales.html) [teaching in Scotland](https://teachinscotland.scot/become-a-teacher/qualified-outside-scotland/) and [teaching in Northern Ireland](https://gtcni.org.uk/registration/getting-registered).

## Contact

To get advice about iQTS, you can:

- call 0800 389 2500 for free from anywhere in the world, Monday to Friday between 8:30am and 5:30pm (UK local time)

- use the live chat service at the bottom of this page

- sign up to [get a teacher training adviser](https://adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/) – you’ll be asked for your phone number, email and location so a teacher training adviser can call you back in your time zone

- email us on iqts.pilot@education.gov.uk

Commit message:

Phone line not free from overseas
Phone line not free from overseas

app/views/content/international-qualified-teacher-status/_after-accordion.md, after:

## Further information

Learn more about [iQTS policy](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/international-qualified-teacher-status-iqts/introducing-the-international-qualified-teacher-status-iqts-pilot) and [iQTS Teachers’ Standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/international-qualified-teacher-status-teachers-standards).

Learn more about [other routes to qualified teacher status (QTS) and teaching in England](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/apply-for-qualified-teacher-status-qts-if-you-teach-outside-the-uk#apply-to-the-teaching-regulation-agency-tra).

[Find more help and guidance if you'd like to teach in England](/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas).

If you already live in the UK, you should consider [applying for teacher training leading to QTS in England](/steps-to-become-a-teacher).

This guidance relates to teaching in England. Different rules  apply to [teaching in Wales,](https://www.ewc.wales/site/index.php/en/registration/practitioners-trained-outside-wales.html) [teaching in Scotland](https://teachinscotland.scot/become-a-teacher/qualified-outside-scotland/) and [teaching in Northern Ireland](https://gtcni.org.uk/registration/getting-registered).

## Contact

To get advice about iQTS, you can:

- call +44 800 389 2500, Monday to Friday between 8:30am and 5:30pm (UK local time) – calls will be charged at your standard rate

- use the live chat service at the bottom of this page

- sign up to [get a teacher training adviser](https://adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/) – you’ll be asked for your phone number, email and location so a teacher training adviser can call you back in your time zone

- email us on iqts.pilot@education.gov.uk
