app/views/content/funding-and-support/if-youre-disabled.md, before:

---
title: "If you're disabled"
heading: "If you're disabled"
description: |-
    Find out what extra support and adjustments you could be entitled to when you're training to teach if you're disabled.
related_content:
    Who do you want to teach?: "/train-to-be-a-teacher/who-do-you-want-to-teach"
    Becoming a teacher with a hearing impairment: "/blog/overcoming-challenges-to-become-a-teacher-hearing-impairment"
    Becoming an autistic teacher: "/blog/overcoming-challenges-to-become-a-teacher-autism"
promo_content:
    - content/funding-and-support/promos/get-adviser-support-promo
navigation: 20.20
navigation_description: Find out what extra support and adjustments you could be entitled to when you're training to teach if you're disabled.
keywords:
    - Disability
    - Disabilities
    - DSA
    - Financial Support
    - Disabled students
    - Disabled Students’ Allowances
---

The experience and perspective of a diverse workforce is valued in school culture.

If you’re disabled, have a mental health condition or educational needs, you can get support to become a teacher.

## Disabled Students’ Allowance and other support

Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) is support to cover the study-related costs you have because of a mental health problem, long term illness or any other disability.

[Find out more about DSA](https://www.gov.uk/disabled-students-allowance-dsa).

[If you do paid training you may also be eligible for support](https://www.gov.uk/access-to-work).

[AbilityNet](https://abilitynet.org.uk/about-abilitynet) or [Disability Rights UK](https://www.disabilityrightsuk.org/adjustments-disabled-students) may also be able to help you identify technology or other adjustments to help you study.

## Adjustments to help you train

Teacher training providers can make adjustments so that you can attend an interview or do the training. For example, they could:

- organise equipment like a hearing loop or an adapted keyboard
- put you in touch with support staff if you have a mental health condition
- make sure classrooms are wheelchair accessible

Sharing that you’re disabled when you [apply for teacher training](https://www.gov.uk/apply-for-teacher-training) can help providers make adjustments. You should contact your provider to discuss any adjustments you may need.

## Your rights

Providers must not discriminate against you. They cannot:

- ask disability or health questions if they’re not relevant to your ability to become a teacher
- reject your application because you’re disabled

Anyone who’s offered a place on a teacher training course is asked to complete a fitness questionnaire before starting training. Training providers should only ask relevant questions to make sure you’re able to teach.

Find out more about [your rights under the Equality Act 2010](https://www.equalityhumanrights.com/en/equality-act/know-your-rights) and how it protects different characteristics.

Commit message:

adding info about application for DSA

app/views/content/funding-and-support/if-youre-disabled.md, after:

---
title: "If you're disabled"
heading: "If you're disabled"
description: |-
    Find out what extra support and adjustments you could be entitled to when you're training to teach if you're disabled.
related_content:
    Who do you want to teach?: "/train-to-be-a-teacher/who-do-you-want-to-teach"
    Becoming a teacher with a hearing impairment: "/blog/overcoming-challenges-to-become-a-teacher-hearing-impairment"
    Becoming an autistic teacher: "/blog/overcoming-challenges-to-become-a-teacher-autism"
promo_content:
    - content/funding-and-support/promos/get-adviser-support-promo
navigation: 20.20
navigation_description: Find out what extra support and adjustments you could be entitled to when you're training to teach if you're disabled.
keywords:
    - Disability
    - Disabilities
    - DSA
    - Financial Support
    - Disabled students
    - Disabled Students’ Allowances
---

The experience and perspective of a diverse workforce is valued in school culture.

If you’re disabled, have a mental health condition or educational needs, you can get support to become a teacher.

## Disabled Students’ Allowance and other support

You can apply for Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) to cover the study-related costs you have because of a mental health problem, long term illness or any other disability.

You’ll get confirmation of whether your application has been successful within 6 weeks.

It can take up to 14 weeks to get your DSA support, so you should take this into consideration if you need the support in place for the start of your course.

[Find out more about DSA](https://www.gov.uk/disabled-students-allowance-dsa).

[If you do paid training you may also be eligible for support](https://www.gov.uk/access-to-work).

[AbilityNet](https://abilitynet.org.uk/about-abilitynet) or [Disability Rights UK](https://www.disabilityrightsuk.org/adjustments-disabled-students) may also be able to help you identify technology or other adjustments to help you study.

## Adjustments to help you train

Teacher training providers can make adjustments so that you can attend an interview or do the training. For example, they could:

- organise equipment like a hearing loop or an adapted keyboard
- put you in touch with support staff if you have a mental health condition
- make sure classrooms are wheelchair accessible

Sharing that you’re disabled when you [apply for teacher training](https://www.gov.uk/apply-for-teacher-training) can help providers make adjustments. You should contact your provider to discuss any adjustments you may need.

## Your rights

Providers must not discriminate against you. They cannot:

- ask disability or health questions if they’re not relevant to your ability to become a teacher
- reject your application because you’re disabled

Anyone who’s offered a place on a teacher training course is asked to complete a fitness questionnaire before starting training. Training providers should only ask relevant questions to make sure you’re able to teach.

Find out more about [your rights under the Equality Act 2010](https://www.equalityhumanrights.com/en/equality-act/know-your-rights) and how it protects different characteristics.
