app/views/content/international-and-overseas/come-to-england-to-teach-if-you-are-a-teacher-from-outside-the-uk.md, before:

---
title: "Come to England to teach if you're a teacher from outside the UK"
description: |-
  Come to England to teach if you're a qualified teacher from outside the UK
related_content:
    Career progression stories: "/my-story-into-teaching/career-progression"
    Salaries and benefits : "/salaries-and-benefits"
    Online Q&A sessions : "/event-categories/online-q-as"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/get-adviser-promo
navigation: 20.20
navigation_description: Find out how you can bring your skills and perspective to an English classroom, working as part of a world class education system.
date: "2021-05-27"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0002.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
right_column:
  ctas:
    - title: Online Q&As
      text: |
        Come to an online event where you can ask advice from our panel of
        teaching experts about coming to teach in England.
      link_text: "Sign up"
      link_target: "/event-categories/online-q-as"
      icon: "icon-calendar"
keywords:
  - International
  - Overseas
  - Foreign
  - Nationality
  - Residency
  - EEA
  - Canada
  - New Zealand
  - Switzerland
  - USA
  - Visa
  - Skilled worker visa
  - EU
  - EU Settlement Scheme
  - NARIC
  - UK NARIC
  - ENIC
  - UK ENIC
  - European Network of Information Centre
  - National Recognition Information Centre for the United Kingdom
  - PhD
  - Immigration
  - Ireland
  - Irish
  - Common Travel Area
  - Student Visa
  - Home Office
  - Graduate Visa
  - Youth Mobility Scheme
  - Japan
  - Monaco
  - Hong Kong
  - Republic of Korea
  - Taiwan
  - Family Visa
  - UK Ancestry Visa
  - Abroad
  - Europe
  - European
  - Settlement Scheme
---

Teach in England and you’ll benefit from working in a world-class education system.

You’ll earn a [competitive salary](/salaries-and-benefits), get supported in your professional development and have varied job opportunities.

You could also consider teaching in [Wales](https://educators.wales), [Scotland](https://teachinscotland.scot/) or [Northern Ireland](https://www.education-ni.gov.uk/articles/initial-teacher-education-courses-northern-ireland).

Not qualified as a teacher yet? Find out [how to train to teach in England as an international applicant](/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student). If you don't want to come to England to train, but would like to gain a professional teaching qualification which is equivalent to English qualified teacher status, you should consider [international qualified teacher status (iQTS)](/international-qualified-teacher-status).

## What you need to start teaching

To teach in England you need:

* teaching skills and experience
* to pass criminal and professional safeguarding checks (these will be organised by your employer)
* to [get the right visa or status](#get-the-right-visa-or-status)

It is also helpful to have a teaching qualification from your own or another non-UK country, or to get '[qualified teacher status](#consider-getting-qualified-teacher-status)'.

## Get the right visa or status

You'll need to [get the right visa or status to work in the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration).

Many teaching job offers allow you to apply for a ‘skilled worker visa’. You may also be eligible for another type of visa.

Alternatively, you may have a pre-existing right to work in the UK, such as settled or pre-settled status under the [EU Settlement Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/settled-status-eu-citizens-families) or [indefinite leave to remain in the UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/indefinite-leave-to-remain-in-the-uk).

[If you're an Irish citizen you do not need a visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/common-travel-area-guidance).

## Consider getting qualified teacher status

[You need 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) to teach in many schools in England](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk).

It's not a requirement in all [types of schools](https://www.gov.uk/types-of-school), such as academy schools, free schools, private schools and independent schools. However, having QTS can help your application.

If you’re a qualified teacher from outside the UK you can [work as a teacher in England for up to 4 years without QTS](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/recruit-teachers-from-overseas#employing-overseas-teachers-without-qts-the-4-year-rule).

[Apply for QTS if you trained outside the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk).

## Search for a job

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/?utm_source=int_teacher_recruitment&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=AY21-22">Search for a teaching <span>job</span></a>
</p>

## Talk to an adviser

You can get one-to-one support if you have [qualified teacher status (QTS)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk) and want to teach secondary chemistry, computing, maths, modern foreign languages or physics. Get help with:

* the application process, such as writing a personal statement and preparing for an interview
* accessing courses to [improve your subject knowledge](/improve-your-subject-knowledge)
* finding [teaching vacancies](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/)

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="/tta-service">Get an <span>adviser</span></a>
</p>

## Find out what salary you can earn

Schools have some flexibility on [salary](/salaries-and-benefits). It varies by region and your level of skill, experience and qualifications.

There are [specific salary requirements for a skilled worker visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration).

## Learn about life as a teacher in England

[Read other teachers’ stories](/my-story-into-teaching) and research the [English curriculum](https://www.gov.uk/national-curriculum) and [teachers’ standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teachers-standards).

## Contact
The Department for Education does not administer teacher training courses or appoint teachers, so we cannot help with individual applications to training providers or schools.

However, for help with the information on this page, you can email us at international.teacherrecruitment@education.gov.uk.

Commit message:

Editing come to teach in england page

app/views/content/international-and-overseas/come-to-england-to-teach-if-you-are-a-teacher-from-outside-the-uk.md, after:

---
title: "Come to England to teach if you're a teacher from outside the UK"
description: |-
  Come to England to teach if you're a qualified teacher from outside the UK
related_content:
    Career progression stories: "/my-story-into-teaching/career-progression"
    Salaries and benefits of teaching in England : "/salaries-and-benefits"
    A day in the life of a teacher in England : "/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-teacher"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/get-adviser-promo
navigation: 20.20
navigation_description: Find out how you can bring your skills and perspective to an English classroom, working as part of a world class education system.
date: "2021-05-27"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0002.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
keywords:
  - International
  - Overseas
  - Foreign
  - Nationality
  - Residency
  - EEA
  - Canada
  - New Zealand
  - Switzerland
  - USA
  - Visa
  - Skilled worker visa
  - EU
  - EU Settlement Scheme
  - NARIC
  - UK NARIC
  - ENIC
  - UK ENIC
  - European Network of Information Centre
  - National Recognition Information Centre for the United Kingdom
  - PhD
  - Immigration
  - Ireland
  - Irish
  - Common Travel Area
  - Student Visa
  - Home Office
  - Graduate Visa
  - Youth Mobility Scheme
  - Japan
  - Monaco
  - Hong Kong
  - Republic of Korea
  - Taiwan
  - Family Visa
  - UK Ancestry Visa
  - Abroad
  - Europe
  - European
  - Settlement Scheme
---

Teach in England and you’ll benefit from working in a world-class education system.

You’ll earn a [competitive salary](/salaries-and-benefits), get supported in your professional development and have varied job opportunities.

You could also consider teaching in [Wales](https://educators.wales), [Scotland](https://teachinscotland.scot/) or [Northern Ireland](https://www.education-ni.gov.uk/articles/initial-teacher-education-courses-northern-ireland).

Not qualified as a teacher yet? Find out [how to train to teach in England as an international applicant](/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student). If you don't want to come to England to train, but would like to gain a professional teaching qualification which is equivalent to English qualified teacher status, you should consider [international qualified teacher status (iQTS)](/international-qualified-teacher-status).

## What you need to start teaching

To teach in England you need:

* teaching skills and experience
* to pass criminal and professional safeguarding checks (these will be organised by your employer)
* to [get the right visa or status](#get-the-right-visa-or-status)

It is also helpful to have a teaching qualification from your own or another non-UK country, or to get '[qualified teacher status](#consider-getting-qualified-teacher-status)'.

## Get the right visa or status

You'll need to [get the right visa or status to work in the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration).

Many teaching job offers allow you to apply for a ‘skilled worker visa’. You may also be eligible for another type of visa.

Alternatively, you may have a pre-existing right to work in the UK, such as settled or pre-settled status under the [EU Settlement Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/settled-status-eu-citizens-families) or [indefinite leave to remain in the UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/indefinite-leave-to-remain-in-the-uk).

[If you're an Irish citizen you do not need a visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/common-travel-area-guidance).

## Consider getting qualified teacher status

[You need 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) to teach in many schools in England](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk).

It's not a requirement in all [types of schools](https://www.gov.uk/types-of-school), such as academy schools, free schools, private schools and independent schools. However, having QTS can help your application.

If you’re a qualified teacher from outside the UK you can [work as a teacher in England for up to 4 years without QTS](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/recruit-teachers-from-overseas#employing-overseas-teachers-without-qts-the-4-year-rule).

[Apply for QTS if you trained outside the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk).

## Search for a job

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/?utm_source=int_teacher_recruitment&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=AY21-22">Search for a teaching <span>job</span></a>
</p>

## Talk to an adviser

You can get one-to-one support if you have [qualified teacher status (QTS)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/qualified-teacher-status-routes-to-qts-for-teachers-and-those-with-teaching-experience-outside-the-uk) and want to teach secondary chemistry, computing, maths, modern foreign languages or physics. Get help with:

* the application process, such as writing a personal statement and preparing for an interview
* accessing courses to [improve your subject knowledge](/improve-your-subject-knowledge)
* finding [teaching vacancies](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/)

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="/tta-service">Get an <span>adviser</span></a>
</p>

## Find out what salary you can earn

Schools have some flexibility on [salary](/salaries-and-benefits). It varies by region and your level of skill, experience and qualifications.

There are [specific salary requirements for a skilled worker visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration).

## Learn about life as a teacher in England

[Read other teachers’ stories](/my-story-into-teaching) and research the [English curriculum](https://www.gov.uk/national-curriculum) and [teachers’ standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teachers-standards).

## Contact
The Department for Education does not administer teacher training courses or appoint teachers, so we cannot help with individual applications to training providers or schools.

However, for help with the information on this page, you can email us at international.teacherrecruitment@education.gov.uk.
