app/views/content/international-and-overseas/international-returners.md, before:

---
title: Return to teaching from overseas
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0014.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
description: |-
  Return to England to teach with the help of a teacher training adviser.
  Courses and events are available to help make your transition easier.
  related_content:
    From construction site to classroom : "/my-story-into-teaching/career-changers/from-construction-site-to-classroom"
    Swapping senior management for students : "/my-story-into-teaching/career-changers/swapping-senior-management-for-students"
    Engineers teach physics : "/subjects/engineers-teach-physics"
    Get into teaching maths : "/subjects/maths"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/learn-adviser-promo
navigation: 20.15
navigation_description: Find out why you should bring your teaching experience back to England.
date: "2020-04-07"
accordion:
  numbered: true
  content_after_accordion:
    partial: content/international-returners/after-accordion
  steps:
    Check your qualifications:
      partial: content/international-returners/check-your-qualifications
    Find your next role:
      partial: content/international-returners/find-your-next-role
    Get help if you teach a shortage subject:
      partial: content/international-returners/support-for-teachers-of-shortage-subjects
    Get ready to apply:
      partial: content/international-returners/get-ready-to-apply
    Read up on changes to English education:
      partial: content/international-returners/read-up-on-changes-to-english-education
    Get started on your personal and professional admin:
      partial: content/international-returners/get-started-on-your-personal-and-professional-admin
    Research visas and immigration:
      partial: content/international-returners/research-visas-and-immigration
keywords:
  - International
  - International returner
  - Returners
  - Return
  - Abroad
  - Back
  - vacancies
  - vacancy
  - jobs
  - network
  - interview
  - ofsted
  - ofsted framework
  - types of school
  - school types
  - teacher standards
  - teachers standards
  - standards
  - chartered college of teaching
right_column:
  ctas:
    - title: Take the next step
      text: |
        Get support to take the next step at an event.
      link_text: "Attend an event"
      link_target: "/events"
      icon: "icon-calendar"
---

Are you a UK-trained teacher and UK citizen currently teaching abroad? Our
children and young people need your international skills, experience and
perspective.

If you're thinking about coming home to teach, we want to help.

If you are a non-UK citizen interested in teaching or training to teach in
England, please read our [guidance for international teachers](/come-to-england-to-teach-if-you-are-a-teacher-from-outside-the-uk) or
[guidance for international trainees](/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student). 

## Return to teaching success stories

Read [inspiring case studies from returning teachers](/my-story-into-teaching/international-career-changers).

## Return to teach in England: step by step

Commit message:

updating international returners nav card copy

app/views/content/international-and-overseas/international-returners.md, after:

---
title: Return to teaching from overseas
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0014.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
description: |-
  Return to England to teach with the help of a teacher training adviser.
  Courses and events are available to help make your transition easier.
related_content:
    From construction site to classroom : "/my-story-into-teaching/career-changers/from-construction-site-to-classroom"
    Swapping senior management for students : "/my-story-into-teaching/career-changers/swapping-senior-management-for-students"
    Engineers teach physics : "/subjects/engineers-teach-physics"
    Get into teaching maths : "/subjects/maths"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/learn-adviser-promo
navigation: 20.15
navigation_description: Bring your international skills and experience back to an English classroom and return to teach in England.
date: "2020-04-07"
accordion:
  numbered: true
  content_after_accordion:
    partial: content/international-returners/after-accordion
  steps:
    Check your qualifications:
      partial: content/international-returners/check-your-qualifications
    Find your next role:
      partial: content/international-returners/find-your-next-role
    Get help if you teach a shortage subject:
      partial: content/international-returners/support-for-teachers-of-shortage-subjects
    Get ready to apply:
      partial: content/international-returners/get-ready-to-apply
    Read up on changes to English education:
      partial: content/international-returners/read-up-on-changes-to-english-education
    Get started on your personal and professional admin:
      partial: content/international-returners/get-started-on-your-personal-and-professional-admin
    Research visas and immigration:
      partial: content/international-returners/research-visas-and-immigration
keywords:
  - International
  - International returner
  - Returners
  - Return
  - Abroad
  - Back
  - vacancies
  - vacancy
  - jobs
  - network
  - interview
  - ofsted
  - ofsted framework
  - types of school
  - school types
  - teacher standards
  - teachers standards
  - standards
  - chartered college of teaching
right_column:
  ctas:
    - title: Take the next step
      text: |
        Get support to take the next step at an event.
      link_text: "Attend an event"
      link_target: "/events"
      icon: "icon-calendar"
---

Are you a UK-trained teacher and UK citizen currently teaching abroad? Our
children and young people need your international skills, experience and
perspective.

If you're thinking about coming home to teach, we want to help.

If you are a non-UK citizen interested in teaching or training to teach in
England, please read our [guidance for international teachers](/come-to-england-to-teach-if-you-are-a-teacher-from-outside-the-uk) or
[guidance for international trainees](/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student). 

## Return to teaching success stories

Read [inspiring case studies from returning teachers](/my-story-into-teaching/international-career-changers).

## Return to teach in England: step by step
