app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/get-school-experience.md, before:

---
title: Get school experience
related_content:
    What is QTS?: "/what-is-qts"
    Salaries and benefits : "/salaries-and-benefits"
    Online Q&A sessions : "/event-categories/online-q-as"
content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/get-school-experience/cta
---

You can visit schools to get experience in the classroom before you start your initial teacher training (ITT).

It can help you:

- decide if you want to train to be a teacher
- discover which setting you’d like to teach in (primary or secondary)
- build a relationship with a school you might want to work for later

##What to expect

Your experience will either be in a school or joining classes and meeting teachers online. Placements usually last one or 2 days, but some can last up to 3 weeks

During your experience, you’ll get to do things like:

- observe lessons
- see how teachers manage a classroom
- find out how specific subjects are taught
- speak to teachers and interact with pupils
- learn more about teacher training - including the application and interview process

##Find school experience

You can search for and request [school experience](https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/) in England.

If you can’t find what you’re looking for, you can call a school directly. You can [find schools near](https://get-information-schools.service.gov.uk/) you and ask who to talk to about getting school experience.

They may ask you to have a DBS check before attending.

Use our Get school experience service to search for and request experience in England.

<a href="https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/" class="button">Search for school experience</a>

##Other ways to get experience of the classroom

###Teaching internships

You could apply for a [paid teaching internship](https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/teaching-internship-providers) if you’re currently doing an undergraduate degree and are interested in teaching:

- maths
- physics
- computing
- modern languages

###Watch pre-recorded lessons

You can [observe teachers’ lessons](https://teachers.thenational.academy/lessons-for-itt) on the Oak National Academy website to help you get to know teaching better, before or alongside your ITT.

Commit message:

Updating related content on get school experience

app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/get-school-experience.md, after:

---
title: Get school experience
related_content:
    Who do you want to teach? : "/train-to-be-a-teacher/who-do-you-want-to-teach"
    School experience helped me decide to switch : "/my-story-into-teaching/career-changers/school-experience-helped-me-decide-to-switch"
    Train to teach events : "/event-categories/train-to-teach-events"
content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/get-school-experience/cta
---

You can visit schools to get experience in the classroom before you start your initial teacher training (ITT).

It can help you:

- decide if you want to train to be a teacher
- discover which setting you’d like to teach in (primary or secondary)
- build a relationship with a school you might want to work for later

##What to expect

Your experience will either be in a school or joining classes and meeting teachers online. Placements usually last one or 2 days, but some can last up to 3 weeks

During your experience, you’ll get to do things like:

- observe lessons
- see how teachers manage a classroom
- find out how specific subjects are taught
- speak to teachers and interact with pupils
- learn more about teacher training - including the application and interview process

##Find school experience

You can search for and request [school experience](https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/) in England.

If you can’t find what you’re looking for, you can call a school directly. You can [find schools near](https://get-information-schools.service.gov.uk/) you and ask who to talk to about getting school experience.

They may ask you to have a DBS check before attending.

Use our Get school experience service to search for and request experience in England.

<a href="https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/" class="button">Search for school experience</a>

##Other ways to get experience of the classroom

###Teaching internships

You could apply for a [paid teaching internship](https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/teaching-internship-providers) if you’re currently doing an undergraduate degree and are interested in teaching:

- maths
- physics
- computing
- modern languages

###Watch pre-recorded lessons

You can [observe teachers’ lessons](https://teachers.thenational.academy/lessons-for-itt) on the Oak National Academy website to help you get to know teaching better, before or alongside your ITT.
