app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-dont-have-a-degree.md, before:

---
title: If you don't have a degree
related_content:
    5 reasons to attend a Train to Teach event : "/blog/5-reasons-to-attend-a-train-to-teach-event"
    Funding your training : "/funding-your-training"
    Teach in further education without a degree : "https://www.teach-in-further-education.campaign.gov.uk"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/find-your-undergraduate-course
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/events-near-you
navigation: 12.10
navigation_description: You need a degree to get QTS. If you're not already studying for one, find out more about undergraduate degree courses.
---

You can get QTS as part of an undergraduate degree.

Courses typically cost £9,250 per year and can take up to 4 years but you can get [funding](/funding-your-training).

Qualifications vary depending on the course. For example, you could get QTS with a:

- Bachelor of Arts (BA)
- Bachelor of Education (BEd)
- Bachelor of Science (BSc)

[Find an undergraduate course](https://digital.ucas.com/search).

Commit message:

Adding meta description and title to if you don't have a degree

app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-dont-have-a-degree.md, after:

---
title: "Ways to train if you don't have a degree"
heading: "If you don't have a degree"
description: |-
  Explore how you can train to be a teacher and gain qualified teacher status (QTS) if you don’t have a degree.
related_content:
    5 reasons to attend a Train to Teach event : "/blog/5-reasons-to-attend-a-train-to-teach-event"
    Funding your training : "/funding-your-training"
    Teach in further education without a degree : "https://www.teach-in-further-education.campaign.gov.uk"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/find-your-undergraduate-course
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/events-near-you
navigation: 12.10
navigation_description: You need a degree to get QTS. If you're not already studying for one, find out more about undergraduate degree courses.
---

You can get QTS as part of an undergraduate degree.

Courses typically cost £9,250 per year and can take up to 4 years but you can get [funding](/funding-your-training).

Qualifications vary depending on the course. For example, you could get QTS with a:

- Bachelor of Arts (BA)
- Bachelor of Education (BEd)
- Bachelor of Science (BSc)

[Find an undergraduate course](https://digital.ucas.com/search).
