app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-have-experience.md, before:

---
title: If you already have classroom experience
related_content:
    Career progression stories: "/my-story-into-teaching/career-progression"
    Salaries and benefits : "/salaries-and-benefits"
    Online Q&A sessions : "/event-categories/online-q-as"
---

If you have been working in a classroom for a significant amount of time, as a teaching assistant or in a similiar role, you may be able to get [qualified teacher status](/what-is-qts) (QTS) through a 12-week ‘assessment only’ programme. You  must also have a degree.

You’ll need to show that you already meet the standards for QTS. For example, you may meet the standards if:

- you’ve already been employed as an unqualified teacher or teaching assistant for a significant amount of time (for example, 2 years) and you’ve worked in more than one school
- you’re a [qualified teacher who trained overseas](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/apply-for-qualified-teacher-status-qts-if-you-teach-outside-the-uk)

Entry criteria may vary by teacher training provider. You should ask them about eligibility before you apply and make sure that you qualify.

Find out more about [assessment only teacher training providers](/assessment-only-providers).

If you already have QTS, find out how you can [return to teaching](/returning-to-teaching).

Commit message:

Promos added to category pages

app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-have-experience.md, after:

---
title: If you already have classroom experience
related_content:
    Career progression stories: "/my-story-into-teaching/career-progression"
    Salaries and benefits : "/salaries-and-benefits"
    Online Q&A sessions : "/event-categories/online-q-as"
extra_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/find-your-course
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/get-adviser-promo
---

If you have been working in a classroom for a significant amount of time, as a teaching assistant or in a similar role, you may be able to get [qualified teacher status](/what-is-qts) (QTS) through a 12-week ‘assessment only’ programme. You  must also have a degree.

You’ll need to show that you already meet the standards for QTS. For example, you may meet the standards if:

- you’ve already been employed as an unqualified teacher or teaching assistant for a significant amount of time (for example, 2 years) and you’ve worked in more than one school
- you’re a [qualified teacher who trained overseas](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/apply-for-qualified-teacher-status-qts-if-you-teach-outside-the-uk)

Entry criteria may vary by teacher training provider. You should ask them about eligibility before you apply and make sure that you qualify.

Find out more about [assessment only teacher training providers](/assessment-only-providers).

If you already have QTS, find out how you can [return to teaching](/returning-to-teaching).
