app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/other-training-you-can-get.md, before:

---
title: Other training and experience you can get
related_content:
    What is QTS?: "/what-is-qts"
    Salaries and benefits : "/salaries-and-benefits"
    Online Q&A sessions : "/event-categories/online-q-as"
---

##Get School Experience

You can visit schools to get experience in the classroom before you start your initial teacher training (ITT).

It can help you:

- decide if you want to train to be a teacher
- discover which setting you’d like to teach in (primary or secondary)
- build a relationship with a school you might want to work for later

###What to expect

Your experience will either be in a school or joining classes and meeting teachers online. Placements usually last one or 2 days, but some can last up to 3 weeks

During your experience, you’ll get to do things like:

- observe lessons
- see how teachers manage a classroom
- find out how specific subjects are taught
- speak to teachers and interact with pupils
- learn more about teacher training - including the application and interview process

###Find school experience

You can usearch fro and request [school experience](https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/) in England.

If you can’t find what you’re looking for, you can call a school directly. You can [find schools near](https://get-information-schools.service.gov.uk/) you and ask who to talk to about getting school experience.

They may ask you to have a DBS check before attending.

This is a CTA. Use our Get school experience service to search for and request experience in England.

[Get school experience button](https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/)

##Teaching internships

You could apply for a [paid teaching internship](https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/teaching-internship-providers) if you’re currently doing an undergraduate degree and are interested in teaching:

- maths
- physics
- computing
- modern languages

##Attend a teacher training event

[Teacher training events](https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/events) can also give you an insight into teaching. You can choose from our Train to Teach events, online Q&A sessions and events run by training providers. The events are in person across England or online.

##Watch pre-recorded lessons

You can [observe teachers’ lessons](https://teachers.thenational.academy/lessons-for-itt) on the Oak National Academy website to help you get to know teaching better, before or alongside your ITT.

Commit message:

Promos added to category pages

app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/other-training-you-can-get.md, after:

---
title: Other training and experience you can get
related_content:
    What is QTS?: "/what-is-qts"
    Salaries and benefits : "/salaries-and-benefits"
    Online Q&A sessions : "/event-categories/online-q-as"
extra_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/find-your-course
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/mailing-list-promo
---

##Get School Experience

You can visit schools to get experience in the classroom before you start your initial teacher training (ITT).

It can help you:

- decide if you want to train to be a teacher
- discover which setting you’d like to teach in (primary or secondary)
- build a relationship with a school you might want to work for later

###What to expect

Your experience will either be in a school or joining classes and meeting teachers online. Placements usually last one or 2 days, but some can last up to 3 weeks

During your experience, you’ll get to do things like:

- observe lessons
- see how teachers manage a classroom
- find out how specific subjects are taught
- speak to teachers and interact with pupils
- learn more about teacher training - including the application and interview process

###Find school experience

You can usearch fro and request [school experience](https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/) in England.

If you can’t find what you’re looking for, you can call a school directly. You can [find schools near](https://get-information-schools.service.gov.uk/) you and ask who to talk to about getting school experience.

They may ask you to have a DBS check before attending.

This is a CTA. Use our Get school experience service to search for and request experience in England.

[Get school experience button](https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/)

##Teaching internships

You could apply for a [paid teaching internship](https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/teaching-internship-providers) if you’re currently doing an undergraduate degree and are interested in teaching:

- maths
- physics
- computing
- modern languages

##Attend a teacher training event

[Teacher training events](https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/events) can also give you an insight into teaching. You can choose from our Train to Teach events, online Q&A sessions and events run by training providers. The events are in person across England or online.

##Watch pre-recorded lessons

You can [observe teachers’ lessons](https://teachers.thenational.academy/lessons-for-itt) on the Oak National Academy website to help you get to know teaching better, before or alongside your ITT.
