app/views/content/assessment-only-providers.md, before:

---
title: Get qualified teacher status through an 'assessment only' programme
description: |-
  A number of accredited providers have been approved to offer the
  'assessment only' (AO) teacher training route to qualified teacher status (QTS). If you are an experienced teacher, you can contact these providers directly.
date: "2021-06-08"
image: false
backlink: /
fullwidth: true
content:
  - content/assessment-only-providers/listing
  - content/assessment-only-providers/update-details
provider_groups:
  East of England:
    providers:
    - header: BEC Teacher Training
      link: https://www.billericayscitt.com/
      name: Fiona Manby
      telephone: 01268 477611 (extn 471)
      email: fiona@billericayscitt.com
    - header: Chiltern Training Group SCITT
      link: https://www.challneyboys.co.uk/
      name: Karen Bateman
      telephone: '01582 599921'
      email: kbateman@challneyboys.luton.sch.uk
    - header: Essex and Thames SCITT
      link: https://etpscitt.co.uk/
      name: Fran Attwood
      telephone: '01268 570215'
      email: Fran@etpscitt.co.uk
    - header: Essex Teacher Training
      # link: https://www.essexteachertraining.co.uk/assessment-only/
      name: Kay Satchell
      email: kay.satchell@essexteachertraining.co.uk
    - header: Mid Essex Initial Teacher Training
      link: https://midessexteachertraining.com/
      name: Keith Ferguson
      telephone: 01376 556398
      email: ao@midessexteachertraining.com
    - header: Newlands Spring Primary School Academy Trust (Essex Primary SCITT)
      link: https://www.essexprimaryscitt.co.uk/
      name: Fiona Willett
      telephone: '0738885808'
      email: fiona@essexprimaryscitt.co.uk
    - header: Norfolk Teacher Training Centre
      link: https://www.norfolkttc.org.uk/
      name: Jacqui Waring
      telephone: 01603 773708
      email: jacqui.waring@ccn.ac.uk
    - header: North Essex Teacher Training (NETT)
      link: http://www.nett.org.uk/
      telephone: '01255431949'
      email: teach@nett.org.uk
    - header: SAF ITT
      name: Su Bernard
      telephone: 01234 827145
      email: SBernard@saf.org.uk
    - header: Suffolk and Norfolk ITT
      link: https://www.suffolkandnorfolkscitt.co.uk
      name: Lucinda James
      telephone: 01473 265077
      email: enquiries@suffolkandnorfolkscitt.co.uk
    - header: The Bedfordshire Schools Training Partnership
      link: https://www.bedsscitt.org.uk/
      name: David Goode
      telephone: 01462 817445
      email: office@bedsscitt.org.uk
    - header: The Cambridge Partnership
      link: https://campartnership.org/
      name: Claire Mott
      telephone: '01487 833707'
      email: cmott@campartnership.org
    - header: The Shire Foundation
      name: Julie Darmody
      telephone: '01582 522121'
      email: jdarmody@shirefoundation.co.uk
    - header: University of Bedfordshire
      link: https://www.beds.ac.uk/
      name: Bedford Admissions
      telephone: 01234 793279
      email: admission@beds.ac.uk
    - header: University of Hertfordshire
      link: https://www.herts.ac.uk/apply/schools-of-study/education/initial-teacher-training/assessment-only-route
      name: AO Administration Team
      telephone: 01707 286300
      email: AOenquiries@herts.ac.uk
  East Midlands:
    providers:
    - header: Bishop Grosseteste University
      link: https://www.bishopg.ac.uk
      name: Enquiries Team
      telephone: 01522 583658
      email: enquiries@bishopg.ac.uk
    - header: CfBT Education Trust SCITT
      name: Julie Woolley
      telephone: '07919 568841'
      email: jwoolley@cfbt.com
    - header: Educate Teacher Training
      link: https://educate-group.co.uk/itt/
      name: Claire King
      telephone: 01476 512793
      email: aor@educate-group.co.uk
    - header: Lincolnshire SCITT
      link: https://www.lincolnshirescitt.co.uk/aor
      name: Angela Murphy
      telephone: 01522 889297
      email: scittenquiries@prioryacademies.co.uk      
    - header: Nottingham Trent University
      link: https://www.ntu.ac.uk/
      name: Admissions team
      telephone: 0115 848 4200
      email: applications@ntu.ac.uk
    - header: The Grand Union Training Partnership
      link: https://www.gutp.co.uk/
      name: Kate Martin
      telephone: 01327 350284 ext. 251
      email: gutprecruitment@sponne.org.uk
    - header: University of Derby
      link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/
      name: Aneesa Akhtar
      email: AO@derby.ac.uk
  Greater London:
    providers:
    - header: 2Schools Consortium
      link: https://www.2schools.org/assessment-only-route/
      name: Isabella Mora
      telephone: '0208 807 6906'
      email: training@oakthorpe.enfield.sch.uk
    - header: Bromley Schools’ Collegiate
      link: https://www.bscteach.co.uk/
      name: Derek Boyle
      telephone: 020 8300 6566
      email: Administrator@gradteach.co.uk
    - header: Goldsmiths, University of London
      link: https://www.gold.ac.uk/
      name: Lynsey Salt
      telephone: 020 7717 2245
      email: ao@gold.ac.uk
    - header: Henry Maynard Training E17
      link: http://www.henrymaynardtraining.co.uk
      name: Clare Hunton
      telephone: '0208 5203142'
      email: training@henrymaynard.waltham.sch.uk
    - header: Jewish Teacher Training Partnership
      link: https://www.lsjs.ac.uk/
      name: Galia Segal
      telephone: 020 8203 6427
      email: galia.segal@lsjs.ac.uk
    - header: Kingston University
      link: https://www.kingston.ac.uk/postgraduate-course/assessment-only-route-leading-to-qualified-teacher-status/
      name: Marcus Bhargava
      telephone: 020 8417 4766
      email: aoenquiries@kingston.ac.uk
    - header: London Metropolitan University
      link: https://www.londonmet.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/assessment-only-ao-route-to-qualified-teacher-status---qts---qts/
      name: Maria Dominguez
      telephone: 0207 133 2983
      email: m.dominguez@londonmet.ac.uk
    - header: London South Bank University
      link: https://www.lsbu.ac.uk
      name: Andrew Read
      telephone: 0207 815 5444
      email: qtsao@lsbu.ac.uk
    - header: Middlesex University
      telephone: 020 8411 5555
      email: enquiries@mdx.ac.uk
    - header: St Mary’s University
      link: https://www.stmarys.ac.uk/education-theology-and-leadership/assessment-only-qts.htm
      name: Elizabeth Jackson
      telephone: '0208 2404326'
      email: ao@stmarys.ac.uk
    - header: 'Teaching London: LDBS SCITT'
      # link: https://teachinglondon.org
      name: Saskia Rossi
      telephone: 0207 932 1126
      email: admin@teachinglondon.org
    - header: The Havering Teacher Training Partnership
      link: https://www.haveringteachertraining.co.uk/
      name: Liz Connell
      telephone: '01708 255006'
      email: http@hallmeadschool.com
    - header: The Pimlico-London SCITT
      link: https://www.futuretraining.org/page/?title=Assessment+Only+Route&pid=20
      email: info@futuretraining.org
    - header: University of East London
      link: https://www.uel.ac.uk/
      name: Bryce Wilby
      telephone: 020 8223 6372
      email: b.wilby@uel.ac.uk
    - header: University of Greenwich
      name: Enquiry Unit
      telephone: 020 8331 9000
      email: courseinfo@gre.ac.uk
    - header: Wandsworth Primary Schools’ Consortium
      link: https://www.beatrixpotterschool.com/our-school/wandsworth-scitt-teacher-training/
      name: Sam Steward
      telephone: 020 8772 9528
      email: ssteward@scitt.wandsworth.sch.uk
  North East:
    providers:
    - header: Carmel Teacher Training Partnership (CTTP)
      link: https://carmelteachertraining.com/
      name: Marielle Thonnart
      telephone: 01325 254525
      email: thonnartm@carmel.bhcet.org.uk
    - header: Durham University
      email: ed.ite@durham.ac.uk
    - header: Stockton-on-Tees Teacher Training Partnership
      link: https://www.stocktonscitt.uk
      name: Kirsten Webber
      telephone: 01642 527675
      email: scitt@stockton.gov.uk
    - header: University of Sunderland
      link: https://www.sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/assessment-only-route-qts/
      name: Jill Wilkinson
      telephone: '0191 5153099'
      email: jill.wilkinson@sunderland.ac.uk
  North West:
    providers:
    - header: Ashton on Mersey SCITT
      link: http://aomscitt.co.uk/assessment-only/
      name: Samantha Buckley
      telephone: 0161 973 1179 (ext 2229)
      email: SamanthaBuckley@thedeantrust.co.uk
    - header: Cumbria Teacher Training
      link: http://www.ctt.ac.uk
      email: scittlead@ctt.ac.uk
    - header: Kingsbridge EIP SCITT
      name: Gail Thomson
      telephone: '01942 510712 ext 500'
      email: g.thomson@kingsbridgeeip.co.uk
    - header: Mersey Boroughs ITT Partnership
      link: https://merseyitt.org.uk/
      name: Gill Makin
      telephone: 0151 443 2663
      email: merseyboroughsitt@knowsley.gov.uk
    - header: North Manchester ITT Partnership
      link: https://www.teachnorthmanchester.com/assessment-only
      name: Carrie Carvell
      telephone: 0161 202 0161
      email: teachertraining@mca.manchester.sch.uk
    - header: Star Teachers SCITT
      name: Felicity Ackroyd
      telephone: 0330 313 9876
      email: felicity.ackroyd@staracademies.org
    - header: University of Chester
      link: https://www.chester.ac.uk/
      name: Jenn Simmonds
      email: j.simmonds@chester.ac.uk
    - header: University of Cumbria
      link: https://www.cumbria.ac.uk/study/academic-departments/institute-of-education/qts-direct-assessment-only-route/
      name: Ian Todd
      email: qtsdirect@cumbria.ac.uk
  South East:
    providers:
    - header: Astra School Centred Initial Teacher Training / Dr Challoner's Grammar
        School
      link: https://www.astra-alliance.com/285/the-assessment-only-route
      name: Stephanie Rodgers
      telephone: '01494 787573'
      email: sro@challoners.org
    - header: Boleyn Trust
      link: https://www.londondistricteast.org/scitt
      email: elascitt@tollgate.boleyntrust.org
    - header: Bourton Meadow Initial Teacher Training Centre
      # link: https://www.bourtonmeadowittc.co.uk
      name: Helen Byrom
      telephone: '01280 823374'
      email: hbyrom@bucksgfl.org.uk
    - header: Canterbury Christ Church University
      name: Keith Saunders
      telephone: 01227 925555
      email: pgadmissions@canterbury.ac.uk
    - header: e-Qualitas
      link: https://www.e-qualitas.co.uk/for-schools/training-routes/assessment-only/
      name: Vivien Johnston
      email: vivien@e-qualitas.co.uk
    - header: George Abbot SCITT
      link: https://georgeabbottraining.co.uk/courses/
      name: Joanna Jones
      telephone: '01483 888070'
      email: contactscitt@georgeabbot.surrey.sch.uk
    - header: GLF Schools’ Teacher Training
      link: http://www.glynsurreyscitt.co.uk/846/assessment-only-route
      name: Helen Shaw
      telephone: '0208 716 4934'
      email: info@glftt.org
    - header: Kent and Medway Training
      link: https://www.kmtraining.org.uk/
      email: polly.butterfield-tracey@kmtraining.org.uk
    - header: Oxford Brookes University
      name: Lorna Shires
      email: assessment-only-qts@brookes.ac.uk
    - header: Surrey South Farnham SCITT
      name: Eukaria Finch
      telephone: 01252 717408
      email: scitt@sfet.org.uk
    - header: Thamesmead SCITT
      name: Claire Lane
      telephone: '01932 219412'
      email: c.lane@thamesmead.surrey.sch.uk
    - header: The Buckingham Partnership
      link: https://www.bpscitt.uk/
      name: Laura Whitty
      telephone: '01280 827 377'
      email: lwhitty@royallatin.org
    - header: The Grand Union Training Partnership
      link: https://www.gutp.co.uk/
      name: Kate Martin
      telephone: 01327 350284 ext. 251
      email: gutprecruitment@sponne.org.uk
    - header: The Tommy Flowers SCITT
      link: https://tommyflowersscitt.co.uk/assessment-only/
      name: Catherine Brown (senior administrator)
      telephone: '01908 505030'
      email: brownc@denbigh.net
    - header: The University of Buckingham
      link: https://www.buckingham.ac.uk/
      name: Nikki Mugford
      telephone: '01280 820219'
      email: education@buckingham.ac.uk
    - header: Two Mile Ash ITT Partnership
      link: https://www.mkitt.co.uk/
      name: Sarah Hand
      telephone: '01908 533284'
      email: info@mkitt.co.uk
    - header: University of Chichester
      link: https://www.chi.ac.uk/institute-education/degrees-qts/assessment-only-route
      email: ao@chi.ac.uk
    - header: University of Reading
      link: https://www.reading.ac.uk/
      name: Marc Jacobs
      telephone: '0118 378 2672'
      email: m.l.jacobs@reading.ac.uk
    - header: University of Sussex
      link: https://www.sussex.ac.uk/
      name: Janet Steadman
      email: l.harknett@sussex.ac.uk
    - header: University of Winchester
      link: https://www.winchester.ac.uk/pages/home.aspx
      name: Keith Smith
      email: ao@winchester.ac.uk
    - header: West Berkshire Training Partnership
      name: Emmeline Bird
      telephone: 01635 42155
      email: admin@itt-westberks.org
    - header: Xavier Catholic Education Trust
      link: https://www.teachsoutheast.co.uk/
      email: a.harper@sjb.surrey.sch.uk
  South West:
    providers:
    - header: Cornwall School Centred Initial Teacher Training (Cornwall SCITT)
      link: https://www.cornwallscitt.org/
      name: Julie Bennett
      telephone: '01872 267092'
      email: juliebennett@truro-penwith.ac.uk
    - header: Mid Somerset Consortium for Teacher Training
      link: https://www.mscitt.org.uk/Routes/Assessment-only/
      name: Sarah Lewis
      telephone: '01458 449418'
      email: office@mscitt.org.uk
    - header: Somerset SCITT Consortium
      link: https://www.sciltraining.co.uk
      email: CLeoni@somerset.gov.uk
    - header: The Learning Institute South West SCITT
      link: https://www.learninginstitute.co.uk
      name: Ania Glowczynska
      telephone: 01726 891 745
      email: info@learninginstitute.co.uk
    - header: Wessex Schools Training Partnership
      name: Mike Petrus
      telephone: 01202 662044
      email: WSTP@poolehigh.poole.sch.uk
  West Midlands:
    providers:
    - header: Birmingham City University
      link: https://www.bcu.ac.uk/
      name: Programme Leader
      telephone: 0121 331 4627
      email: assessmentonlyqts@bcu.ac.uk
    - header: Haybridge Alliance SCITT
      link: https://www.teachwithhaybridge.co.uk
      email: tforward@haybridge.worcs.sch.uk
    - header: Keele and North Staffordshire Teacher Education
      link: https://knste-shaw.org.uk/assessment-route
      name: Tricia Locker
      telephone: '01782 432538'
      email: ao@knste-shaw.org.uk
    - header: St. Joseph's College Stoke Secondary Partnership
      link: http://www.stjosephstrentvale.com/teaching-school/partnership/
      email: schater@stjosephsmail.com
    - header: Staffordshire University
      link: https://www.staffs.ac.uk/
      name: Jayne Bartrop
      telephone: '01782 295977'
      email: J.Bartrop@staffs.ac.uk
    - header: The Coventry SCITT
      link: https://www.coventryscitt.org.uk
      email: info@coventryscitt.org.uk
    - header: The National School of Education and Teaching, Coventry University
      name: Carol Rowntree
      telephone: 01327 850320
      email: NSET@coventry.ac.uk
    - header: The OAKS (Ormiston and Keele SCITT)
      name: Rob Tweats
      telephone: '01782 734332'
      email: r.tweats@keele.ac.uk
    - header: Titan Partnership Ltd
      link: https://www.titanteachertraining.co.uk/itt-courses/assessment-only/
      name: Sean Bates
      telephone: 0121 607 1930
      email: sean.bates@titan.org.uk
    - header: University College Birmingham
      link: https://www.ucb.ac.uk/home.aspx
      name: Dr. Marj Jeavons
      email: m.jeavons@ucb.ac.uk
    - header: University of Warwick
      link: https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/cte/professionaldevelopment/assessmentonly/
      name: CTE Admissions and Enrolment Team
      email: cte.admissions@warwick.ac.uk
    - header: University of Wolverhampton – primary
      link: https://www.wlv.ac.uk/
      email: AOPrimary@wlv.ac.uk
    - header: University of Wolverhampton – secondary
      link: https://www.wlv.ac.uk/
      email: AOSecondary@wlv.ac.uk
    - header: West Midlands Consortium
      link: https://wmc.ttsonline.net/
      name: Su Plant
      telephone: '01952 200000'
      email: ssplant@ttsonline.net
  Yorkshire and the Humber:
    providers:
    - header: Bradford College
      link: https://www.bradfordcollege.ac.uk/courses/course/qualified-teacher-status-qts-assessment-only-programme/
      name: Lee Parsell
      telephone: 01274 088 368
      email: l.parsell@bradfordcollege.ac.uk
    - header: GORSE SCITT
      name: Stephen McKenzie
      telephone: '01134871777'
      email: info@gorsescitt.org.uk
    - header: Leeds Trinity University
      name: Admissions
      telephone: 0113 283 7123
      email: admissions@leedstrinity.ac.uk
    - header: North Lincolnshire SCITT Partnership
      name: Jo Leedham
      telephone: 01724 297950
      email: jo.leedham@northlincs.gov.uk
    - header: The Sheffield SCITT
      link: https://www.sheffieldscitt.org.uk/
      email: admin@sheffieldscitt.org.uk
    - header: Three Counties Alliance SCITT
      link: https://ytcascitt.co.uk/
      name: Rebecca Turner-Loisel
      telephone: '01977 657604'
      email: ytca@minsthorpe.cc
    - header: University of Hull
      name: Initial Teacher Education Partners
      link: https://www.hull.ac.uk
      email: FACE-ITEPartners@hull.ac.uk
    - header: Yorkshire and Humber Teacher Training
      link: https://www.yhtt.co.uk
      name: Chris Fletcher
      telephone: '01482 349611'
      email: cfletcher@yhtt.co.uk
  National:
    providers:
    - header: TES Institute
      link: https://www.tes.com/institute/assessment-only-route
      name: Mikki Burns
      telephone: 0203 194 3200
      email: institute@tesglobal.com
  Providers offering assessment only QTS to international teachers:
    description: content/assessment-only-providers/descriptions/teacher-training-providers-offering-assessment-only-qts-to-international-teachers
    providers:
    - header: University of Sunderland
      link: https://www.sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/assessment-only-route-qts/
      name: Ian Elliott
      telephone: 0191 515 2159
      email: ian.elliott@sunderland.ac.uk
    - header: Educational Success Partners (ESP)
      link: https://www.espeducation.co.uk/ao-route
      name: Mark Bignell
      telephone: 07425 555142
      email: mark@espeducation.co.uk
    - header: Buckingham International School of Education
      link: https://www.bise.org
      name: Admissions Team
      telephone: +86 135 2015 3752
      email: admissions@bise.org
    - header: TES Institute (International)
      link: https://www.tes.com/institute/courses/international-assessment-only-route
      name: TI Enrolment team
      telephone: +44 (0)203 194 3000
      email: institute@tesglobal.com
keywords:
  - Assessment Only
  - Assessment
  - Provider
  - SCITT
  - experienced
---

If you’re an experienced teacher with a degree, you may be able to get qualified teacher status (QTS) through a 12-week assessment only (AO) programme.

The accredited teacher training providers listed on this page offer the AO programme.

Contact them directly to ask them about entry criteria and to apply.

### Teachers from outside the UK

If you trained as a teacher outside the UK, you can apply to certain training providers for an assessment only QTS without visiting or training in England. 

[View teaching training providers offering assessment only QTS to international teachers.](#group--providers-offering-assessment-only-qts-to-international-teachers)

Commit message:

assessment only providers meta description updated

app/views/content/assessment-only-providers.md, after:

---
title: Get qualified teacher status through an 'assessment only' programme
description: |-
  Find accredited providers who offer the assessment only teacher training route to qualified teacher status (QTS) for experienced teachers with a degree.
date: "2021-06-08"
image: false
backlink: /
fullwidth: true
content:
  - content/assessment-only-providers/listing
  - content/assessment-only-providers/update-details
provider_groups:
  East of England:
    providers:
    - header: BEC Teacher Training
      link: https://www.billericayscitt.com/
      name: Fiona Manby
      telephone: 01268 477611 (extn 471)
      email: fiona@billericayscitt.com
    - header: Chiltern Training Group SCITT
      link: https://www.challneyboys.co.uk/
      name: Karen Bateman
      telephone: '01582 599921'
      email: kbateman@challneyboys.luton.sch.uk
    - header: Essex and Thames SCITT
      link: https://etpscitt.co.uk/
      name: Fran Attwood
      telephone: '01268 570215'
      email: Fran@etpscitt.co.uk
    - header: Essex Teacher Training
      # link: https://www.essexteachertraining.co.uk/assessment-only/
      name: Kay Satchell
      email: kay.satchell@essexteachertraining.co.uk
    - header: Mid Essex Initial Teacher Training
      link: https://midessexteachertraining.com/
      name: Keith Ferguson
      telephone: 01376 556398
      email: ao@midessexteachertraining.com
    - header: Newlands Spring Primary School Academy Trust (Essex Primary SCITT)
      link: https://www.essexprimaryscitt.co.uk/
      name: Fiona Willett
      telephone: '0738885808'
      email: fiona@essexprimaryscitt.co.uk
    - header: Norfolk Teacher Training Centre
      link: https://www.norfolkttc.org.uk/
      name: Jacqui Waring
      telephone: 01603 773708
      email: jacqui.waring@ccn.ac.uk
    - header: North Essex Teacher Training (NETT)
      link: http://www.nett.org.uk/
      telephone: '01255431949'
      email: teach@nett.org.uk
    - header: SAF ITT
      name: Su Bernard
      telephone: 01234 827145
      email: SBernard@saf.org.uk
    - header: Suffolk and Norfolk ITT
      link: https://www.suffolkandnorfolkscitt.co.uk
      name: Lucinda James
      telephone: 01473 265077
      email: enquiries@suffolkandnorfolkscitt.co.uk
    - header: The Bedfordshire Schools Training Partnership
      link: https://www.bedsscitt.org.uk/
      name: David Goode
      telephone: 01462 817445
      email: office@bedsscitt.org.uk
    - header: The Cambridge Partnership
      link: https://campartnership.org/
      name: Claire Mott
      telephone: '01487 833707'
      email: cmott@campartnership.org
    - header: The Shire Foundation
      name: Julie Darmody
      telephone: '01582 522121'
      email: jdarmody@shirefoundation.co.uk
    - header: University of Bedfordshire
      link: https://www.beds.ac.uk/
      name: Bedford Admissions
      telephone: 01234 793279
      email: admission@beds.ac.uk
    - header: University of Hertfordshire
      link: https://www.herts.ac.uk/apply/schools-of-study/education/initial-teacher-training/assessment-only-route
      name: AO Administration Team
      telephone: 01707 286300
      email: AOenquiries@herts.ac.uk
  East Midlands:
    providers:
    - header: Bishop Grosseteste University
      link: https://www.bishopg.ac.uk
      name: Enquiries Team
      telephone: 01522 583658
      email: enquiries@bishopg.ac.uk
    - header: CfBT Education Trust SCITT
      name: Julie Woolley
      telephone: '07919 568841'
      email: jwoolley@cfbt.com
    - header: Educate Teacher Training
      link: https://educate-group.co.uk/itt/
      name: Claire King
      telephone: 01476 512793
      email: aor@educate-group.co.uk
    - header: Lincolnshire SCITT
      link: https://www.lincolnshirescitt.co.uk/aor
      name: Angela Murphy
      telephone: 01522 889297
      email: scittenquiries@prioryacademies.co.uk      
    - header: Nottingham Trent University
      link: https://www.ntu.ac.uk/
      name: Admissions team
      telephone: 0115 848 4200
      email: applications@ntu.ac.uk
    - header: The Grand Union Training Partnership
      link: https://www.gutp.co.uk/
      name: Kate Martin
      telephone: 01327 350284 ext. 251
      email: gutprecruitment@sponne.org.uk
    - header: University of Derby
      link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/
      name: Aneesa Akhtar
      email: AO@derby.ac.uk
  Greater London:
    providers:
    - header: 2Schools Consortium
      link: https://www.2schools.org/assessment-only-route/
      name: Isabella Mora
      telephone: '0208 807 6906'
      email: training@oakthorpe.enfield.sch.uk
    - header: Bromley Schools’ Collegiate
      link: https://www.bscteach.co.uk/
      name: Derek Boyle
      telephone: 020 8300 6566
      email: Administrator@gradteach.co.uk
    - header: Goldsmiths, University of London
      link: https://www.gold.ac.uk/
      name: Lynsey Salt
      telephone: 020 7717 2245
      email: ao@gold.ac.uk
    - header: Henry Maynard Training E17
      link: http://www.henrymaynardtraining.co.uk
      name: Clare Hunton
      telephone: '0208 5203142'
      email: training@henrymaynard.waltham.sch.uk
    - header: Jewish Teacher Training Partnership
      link: https://www.lsjs.ac.uk/
      name: Galia Segal
      telephone: 020 8203 6427
      email: galia.segal@lsjs.ac.uk
    - header: Kingston University
      link: https://www.kingston.ac.uk/postgraduate-course/assessment-only-route-leading-to-qualified-teacher-status/
      name: Marcus Bhargava
      telephone: 020 8417 4766
      email: aoenquiries@kingston.ac.uk
    - header: London Metropolitan University
      link: https://www.londonmet.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/assessment-only-ao-route-to-qualified-teacher-status---qts---qts/
      name: Maria Dominguez
      telephone: 0207 133 2983
      email: m.dominguez@londonmet.ac.uk
    - header: London South Bank University
      link: https://www.lsbu.ac.uk
      name: Andrew Read
      telephone: 0207 815 5444
      email: qtsao@lsbu.ac.uk
    - header: Middlesex University
      telephone: 020 8411 5555
      email: enquiries@mdx.ac.uk
    - header: St Mary’s University
      link: https://www.stmarys.ac.uk/education-theology-and-leadership/assessment-only-qts.htm
      name: Elizabeth Jackson
      telephone: '0208 2404326'
      email: ao@stmarys.ac.uk
    - header: 'Teaching London: LDBS SCITT'
      # link: https://teachinglondon.org
      name: Saskia Rossi
      telephone: 0207 932 1126
      email: admin@teachinglondon.org
    - header: The Havering Teacher Training Partnership
      link: https://www.haveringteachertraining.co.uk/
      name: Liz Connell
      telephone: '01708 255006'
      email: http@hallmeadschool.com
    - header: The Pimlico-London SCITT
      link: https://www.futuretraining.org/page/?title=Assessment+Only+Route&pid=20
      email: info@futuretraining.org
    - header: University of East London
      link: https://www.uel.ac.uk/
      name: Bryce Wilby
      telephone: 020 8223 6372
      email: b.wilby@uel.ac.uk
    - header: University of Greenwich
      name: Enquiry Unit
      telephone: 020 8331 9000
      email: courseinfo@gre.ac.uk
    - header: Wandsworth Primary Schools’ Consortium
      link: https://www.beatrixpotterschool.com/our-school/wandsworth-scitt-teacher-training/
      name: Sam Steward
      telephone: 020 8772 9528
      email: ssteward@scitt.wandsworth.sch.uk
  North East:
    providers:
    - header: Carmel Teacher Training Partnership (CTTP)
      link: https://carmelteachertraining.com/
      name: Marielle Thonnart
      telephone: 01325 254525
      email: thonnartm@carmel.bhcet.org.uk
    - header: Durham University
      email: ed.ite@durham.ac.uk
    - header: Stockton-on-Tees Teacher Training Partnership
      link: https://www.stocktonscitt.uk
      name: Kirsten Webber
      telephone: 01642 527675
      email: scitt@stockton.gov.uk
    - header: University of Sunderland
      link: https://www.sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/assessment-only-route-qts/
      name: Jill Wilkinson
      telephone: '0191 5153099'
      email: jill.wilkinson@sunderland.ac.uk
  North West:
    providers:
    - header: Ashton on Mersey SCITT
      link: http://aomscitt.co.uk/assessment-only/
      name: Samantha Buckley
      telephone: 0161 973 1179 (ext 2229)
      email: SamanthaBuckley@thedeantrust.co.uk
    - header: Cumbria Teacher Training
      link: http://www.ctt.ac.uk
      email: scittlead@ctt.ac.uk
    - header: Kingsbridge EIP SCITT
      name: Gail Thomson
      telephone: '01942 510712 ext 500'
      email: g.thomson@kingsbridgeeip.co.uk
    - header: Mersey Boroughs ITT Partnership
      link: https://merseyitt.org.uk/
      name: Gill Makin
      telephone: 0151 443 2663
      email: merseyboroughsitt@knowsley.gov.uk
    - header: North Manchester ITT Partnership
      link: https://www.teachnorthmanchester.com/assessment-only
      name: Carrie Carvell
      telephone: 0161 202 0161
      email: teachertraining@mca.manchester.sch.uk
    - header: Star Teachers SCITT
      name: Felicity Ackroyd
      telephone: 0330 313 9876
      email: felicity.ackroyd@staracademies.org
    - header: University of Chester
      link: https://www.chester.ac.uk/
      name: Jenn Simmonds
      email: j.simmonds@chester.ac.uk
    - header: University of Cumbria
      link: https://www.cumbria.ac.uk/study/academic-departments/institute-of-education/qts-direct-assessment-only-route/
      name: Ian Todd
      email: qtsdirect@cumbria.ac.uk
  South East:
    providers:
    - header: Astra School Centred Initial Teacher Training / Dr Challoner's Grammar
        School
      link: https://www.astra-alliance.com/285/the-assessment-only-route
      name: Stephanie Rodgers
      telephone: '01494 787573'
      email: sro@challoners.org
    - header: Boleyn Trust
      link: https://www.londondistricteast.org/scitt
      email: elascitt@tollgate.boleyntrust.org
    - header: Bourton Meadow Initial Teacher Training Centre
      # link: https://www.bourtonmeadowittc.co.uk
      name: Helen Byrom
      telephone: '01280 823374'
      email: hbyrom@bucksgfl.org.uk
    - header: Canterbury Christ Church University
      name: Keith Saunders
      telephone: 01227 925555
      email: pgadmissions@canterbury.ac.uk
    - header: e-Qualitas
      link: https://www.e-qualitas.co.uk/for-schools/training-routes/assessment-only/
      name: Vivien Johnston
      email: vivien@e-qualitas.co.uk
    - header: George Abbot SCITT
      link: https://georgeabbottraining.co.uk/courses/
      name: Joanna Jones
      telephone: '01483 888070'
      email: contactscitt@georgeabbot.surrey.sch.uk
    - header: GLF Schools’ Teacher Training
      link: http://www.glynsurreyscitt.co.uk/846/assessment-only-route
      name: Helen Shaw
      telephone: '0208 716 4934'
      email: info@glftt.org
    - header: Kent and Medway Training
      link: https://www.kmtraining.org.uk/
      email: polly.butterfield-tracey@kmtraining.org.uk
    - header: Oxford Brookes University
      name: Lorna Shires
      email: assessment-only-qts@brookes.ac.uk
    - header: Surrey South Farnham SCITT
      name: Eukaria Finch
      telephone: 01252 717408
      email: scitt@sfet.org.uk
    - header: Thamesmead SCITT
      name: Claire Lane
      telephone: '01932 219412'
      email: c.lane@thamesmead.surrey.sch.uk
    - header: The Buckingham Partnership
      link: https://www.bpscitt.uk/
      name: Laura Whitty
      telephone: '01280 827 377'
      email: lwhitty@royallatin.org
    - header: The Grand Union Training Partnership
      link: https://www.gutp.co.uk/
      name: Kate Martin
      telephone: 01327 350284 ext. 251
      email: gutprecruitment@sponne.org.uk
    - header: The Tommy Flowers SCITT
      link: https://tommyflowersscitt.co.uk/assessment-only/
      name: Catherine Brown (senior administrator)
      telephone: '01908 505030'
      email: brownc@denbigh.net
    - header: The University of Buckingham
      link: https://www.buckingham.ac.uk/
      name: Nikki Mugford
      telephone: '01280 820219'
      email: education@buckingham.ac.uk
    - header: Two Mile Ash ITT Partnership
      link: https://www.mkitt.co.uk/
      name: Sarah Hand
      telephone: '01908 533284'
      email: info@mkitt.co.uk
    - header: University of Chichester
      link: https://www.chi.ac.uk/institute-education/degrees-qts/assessment-only-route
      email: ao@chi.ac.uk
    - header: University of Reading
      link: https://www.reading.ac.uk/
      name: Marc Jacobs
      telephone: '0118 378 2672'
      email: m.l.jacobs@reading.ac.uk
    - header: University of Sussex
      link: https://www.sussex.ac.uk/
      name: Janet Steadman
      email: l.harknett@sussex.ac.uk
    - header: University of Winchester
      link: https://www.winchester.ac.uk/pages/home.aspx
      name: Keith Smith
      email: ao@winchester.ac.uk
    - header: West Berkshire Training Partnership
      name: Emmeline Bird
      telephone: 01635 42155
      email: admin@itt-westberks.org
    - header: Xavier Catholic Education Trust
      link: https://www.teachsoutheast.co.uk/
      email: a.harper@sjb.surrey.sch.uk
  South West:
    providers:
    - header: Cornwall School Centred Initial Teacher Training (Cornwall SCITT)
      link: https://www.cornwallscitt.org/
      name: Julie Bennett
      telephone: '01872 267092'
      email: juliebennett@truro-penwith.ac.uk
    - header: Mid Somerset Consortium for Teacher Training
      link: https://www.mscitt.org.uk/Routes/Assessment-only/
      name: Sarah Lewis
      telephone: '01458 449418'
      email: office@mscitt.org.uk
    - header: Somerset SCITT Consortium
      link: https://www.sciltraining.co.uk
      email: CLeoni@somerset.gov.uk
    - header: The Learning Institute South West SCITT
      link: https://www.learninginstitute.co.uk
      name: Ania Glowczynska
      telephone: 01726 891 745
      email: info@learninginstitute.co.uk
    - header: Wessex Schools Training Partnership
      name: Mike Petrus
      telephone: 01202 662044
      email: WSTP@poolehigh.poole.sch.uk
  West Midlands:
    providers:
    - header: Birmingham City University
      link: https://www.bcu.ac.uk/
      name: Programme Leader
      telephone: 0121 331 4627
      email: assessmentonlyqts@bcu.ac.uk
    - header: Haybridge Alliance SCITT
      link: https://www.teachwithhaybridge.co.uk
      email: tforward@haybridge.worcs.sch.uk
    - header: Keele and North Staffordshire Teacher Education
      link: https://knste-shaw.org.uk/assessment-route
      name: Tricia Locker
      telephone: '01782 432538'
      email: ao@knste-shaw.org.uk
    - header: St. Joseph's College Stoke Secondary Partnership
      link: http://www.stjosephstrentvale.com/teaching-school/partnership/
      email: schater@stjosephsmail.com
    - header: Staffordshire University
      link: https://www.staffs.ac.uk/
      name: Jayne Bartrop
      telephone: '01782 295977'
      email: J.Bartrop@staffs.ac.uk
    - header: The Coventry SCITT
      link: https://www.coventryscitt.org.uk
      email: info@coventryscitt.org.uk
    - header: The National School of Education and Teaching, Coventry University
      name: Carol Rowntree
      telephone: 01327 850320
      email: NSET@coventry.ac.uk
    - header: The OAKS (Ormiston and Keele SCITT)
      name: Rob Tweats
      telephone: '01782 734332'
      email: r.tweats@keele.ac.uk
    - header: Titan Partnership Ltd
      link: https://www.titanteachertraining.co.uk/itt-courses/assessment-only/
      name: Sean Bates
      telephone: 0121 607 1930
      email: sean.bates@titan.org.uk
    - header: University College Birmingham
      link: https://www.ucb.ac.uk/home.aspx
      name: Dr. Marj Jeavons
      email: m.jeavons@ucb.ac.uk
    - header: University of Warwick
      link: https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/cte/professionaldevelopment/assessmentonly/
      name: CTE Admissions and Enrolment Team
      email: cte.admissions@warwick.ac.uk
    - header: University of Wolverhampton – primary
      link: https://www.wlv.ac.uk/
      email: AOPrimary@wlv.ac.uk
    - header: University of Wolverhampton – secondary
      link: https://www.wlv.ac.uk/
      email: AOSecondary@wlv.ac.uk
    - header: West Midlands Consortium
      link: https://wmc.ttsonline.net/
      name: Su Plant
      telephone: '01952 200000'
      email: ssplant@ttsonline.net
  Yorkshire and the Humber:
    providers:
    - header: Bradford College
      link: https://www.bradfordcollege.ac.uk/courses/course/qualified-teacher-status-qts-assessment-only-programme/
      name: Lee Parsell
      telephone: 01274 088 368
      email: l.parsell@bradfordcollege.ac.uk
    - header: GORSE SCITT
      name: Stephen McKenzie
      telephone: '01134871777'
      email: info@gorsescitt.org.uk
    - header: Leeds Trinity University
      name: Admissions
      telephone: 0113 283 7123
      email: admissions@leedstrinity.ac.uk
    - header: North Lincolnshire SCITT Partnership
      name: Jo Leedham
      telephone: 01724 297950
      email: jo.leedham@northlincs.gov.uk
    - header: The Sheffield SCITT
      link: https://www.sheffieldscitt.org.uk/
      email: admin@sheffieldscitt.org.uk
    - header: Three Counties Alliance SCITT
      link: https://ytcascitt.co.uk/
      name: Rebecca Turner-Loisel
      telephone: '01977 657604'
      email: ytca@minsthorpe.cc
    - header: University of Hull
      name: Initial Teacher Education Partners
      link: https://www.hull.ac.uk
      email: FACE-ITEPartners@hull.ac.uk
    - header: Yorkshire and Humber Teacher Training
      link: https://www.yhtt.co.uk
      name: Chris Fletcher
      telephone: '01482 349611'
      email: cfletcher@yhtt.co.uk
  National:
    providers:
    - header: TES Institute
      link: https://www.tes.com/institute/assessment-only-route
      name: Mikki Burns
      telephone: 0203 194 3200
      email: institute@tesglobal.com
  Providers offering assessment only QTS to international teachers:
    description: content/assessment-only-providers/descriptions/teacher-training-providers-offering-assessment-only-qts-to-international-teachers
    providers:
    - header: University of Sunderland
      link: https://www.sunderland.ac.uk/study/short-courses-cpd/assessment-only-route-qts/
      name: Ian Elliott
      telephone: 0191 515 2159
      email: ian.elliott@sunderland.ac.uk
    - header: Educational Success Partners (ESP)
      link: https://www.espeducation.co.uk/ao-route
      name: Mark Bignell
      telephone: 07425 555142
      email: mark@espeducation.co.uk
    - header: Buckingham International School of Education
      link: https://www.bise.org
      name: Admissions Team
      telephone: +86 135 2015 3752
      email: admissions@bise.org
    - header: TES Institute (International)
      link: https://www.tes.com/institute/courses/international-assessment-only-route
      name: TI Enrolment team
      telephone: +44 (0)203 194 3000
      email: institute@tesglobal.com
keywords:
  - Assessment Only
  - Assessment
  - Provider
  - SCITT
  - experienced
---

If you’re an experienced teacher with a degree, you may be able to get qualified teacher status (QTS) through a 12-week assessment only (AO) programme.

The accredited teacher training providers listed on this page offer the AO programme.

Contact them directly to ask them about entry criteria and to apply.

### Teachers from outside the UK

If you trained as a teacher outside the UK, you can apply to certain training providers for an assessment only QTS without visiting or training in England. 

[View teaching training providers offering assessment only QTS to international teachers.](#group--providers-offering-assessment-only-qts-to-international-teachers)
