app/views/content/become-a-further-education-teacher.md, before:

---
title: Become a further education teacher
article_classes: ['longform']
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0015.jpg"
description: |-
  Further education is any study that takes place after secondary school but outside of higher education (e.g. university). 
date: "2021-06-18"
keywords:
  - Further
  - Further education
  - FE
  - College
  - Vocational
  - Vocation
  - F.E.
  - NVQ
  - BTEC
  - HND
  - apprencticeship
---

Further education is any study that takes place after secondary school but outside of higher education (e.g. university).

In further education, teaching doesn’t always happen in a classroom. It can take place in community centres, workplaces and private training centres. 

You could teach a diverse set of learners, including young people and adults.

You do not need a degree to start teaching in further education. 

## Training to teach in further education

To find out more, visit the [teach in further education website](https://www.teach-in-further-education.campaign.gov.uk/).

Or, speak to an adviser on [0300 303 1877](tel:0300 303 1877) or by emailing feadviceline@etfoundation.co.uk.

Commit message:

become a further education teacher meta description updated

app/views/content/become-a-further-education-teacher.md, after:

---
title: Become a further education teacher
article_classes: ['longform']
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0015.jpg"
description: |-
  Find out how to become a college teacher in the UK. This Department for Education page has links to advice and support on teacher training in further education.
date: "2021-06-18"
keywords:
  - Further
  - Further education
  - FE
  - College
  - Vocational
  - Vocation
  - F.E.
  - NVQ
  - BTEC
  - HND
  - apprencticeship
---

Further education is any study that takes place after secondary school but outside of higher education (e.g. university).

In further education, teaching doesn’t always happen in a classroom. It can take place in community centres, workplaces and private training centres. 

You could teach a diverse set of learners, including young people and adults.

You do not need a degree to start teaching in further education. 

## Training to teach in further education

To find out more, visit the [teach in further education website](https://www.teach-in-further-education.campaign.gov.uk/).

Or, speak to an adviser on [0300 303 1877](tel:0300 303 1877) or by emailing feadviceline@etfoundation.co.uk.
