app/views/content/early-years-teaching-training.md, before:

---
title: "Early years teacher training"
image: false
backlink: "../"
keywords:
 - EYITT
 - Early
 - Years
 - Early Years
 - EYTS
 - Early Years Teacher Status
 - Under 5
 - EY
 - E.Y.
 - nursery
 - preschool
 - year one
date: "2021-03-29"
description: |-
  As an early years teacher you'll use your knowledge and skills to help younger children
  enjoy high standards of teaching. Your input will have a long and positive
  impact on their development and wellbeing. Find out how to get Early Years Teacher Status (EYTS).
calls_to_action:
  EY-undergraduate:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:
      - Cost: "Up to £9,250"
        Salary: "No"
        Funding available: "Yes"
        Length of training: "3 or 4 years"
        Qualification: "Early years teacher status"
      - "Undergraduate early years teacher training"
  EY-graduate:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:
      - Cost: "£7,000"
        Salary: "No"
        Funding available: "Yes"
        Length of training: "Typically 1 academic year"
        Qualification: "Early years teacher status"
      - "Graduate early years teacher training"     
  EY-graduate-employment:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:
      - Cost: "£7,000"
        Salary: "Provided by employer"
        Funding available: "Yes"
        Length of training: "Typically 1 academic year"
        Qualification: "Early years teacher status"
      - "Graduate employment-based early years teacher training"
  EY-self-funded:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:
      - Cost: "Self-funded"
        Salary: "No"
        Funding available: "No"
        Length of training: "3 months"
        Qualification: "Early years teacher status"
      - "Graduate 'assessment only' training"
---

## Become an early years teacher

As an early years teacher you'll work with young children up to the age of 5. Your input will have a lasting and positive effect on their development and wellbeing.

The early years are critical in children's development. You’ll use your knowledge and skills to help young children enjoy high standards of teaching and open their minds to new ideas every day.

### How to become an early years teacher

You’ll need to do 'early years initial teacher training' (EYITT) to achieve 'early years teacher status' (EYTS).

EYTS is different from '[qualified teacher status](/ways-to-train)' (QTS), which is the equivalent for teaching children aged 3 to 18.

Your training will enable you to meet the [early years teachers' standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards).

To start early years teacher training, you’ll need these qualifications (or to demonstrate an equivalent standard):

* maths grade 4 (C)
* English grade 4 (C)
* science grade 4 (C)

If you do postgraduate early years teacher training, you'll need a 2:2 bachelor’s degree with honours or higher.

[Contact accredited early years training providers to apply for a place](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-early-years-lead-organisations/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-lead-organisations).

[Learn about funding](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/early-years-initial-teacher-training-2021-to-2022-funding-guidance).

## Ways to train

$EY-undergraduate$

A full-time bachelor’s degree in an early childhood-related subject leading to EYTS. [Undergraduate tuition fee loans are available from Student Finance England
(SFE)](https://www.gov.uk/student-finance).

$EY-graduate$

Bursaries are available, including:

* £5,000 if you have a first class degree
* £4,000 if you have a 2:1 degree
* £2,000 if you have a 2:2 degree

$EY-graduate-employment$

This one-year part-time route is for graduates working in an early years setting who need further training to meet the [early years teachers' standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards).

Funding of up to £14,000 is available. This would cover course fees of up to £7,000, plus £7,000 for your employer, to help cover their extra costs while you train.

$EY-self-funded$

This self-funded route is ideal for graduates with early-years experience. If you already meet the [early years teachers' standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards), you can gain EYTS without the need for further training.

Commit message:

early years teaching training meta description updated

app/views/content/early-years-teaching-training.md, after:

---
title: "Early years teacher training"
image: false
backlink: "../"
keywords:
 - EYITT
 - Early
 - Years
 - Early Years
 - EYTS
 - Early Years Teacher Status
 - Under 5
 - EY
 - E.Y.
 - nursery
 - preschool
 - year one
date: "2021-03-29"
description: |-
  Discover how to get Early Years Teacher Status (EYTS) and help to educate and inspire future generations. Official guidance on early years teacher training.
calls_to_action:
  EY-undergraduate:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:
      - Cost: "Up to £9,250"
        Salary: "No"
        Funding available: "Yes"
        Length of training: "3 or 4 years"
        Qualification: "Early years teacher status"
      - "Undergraduate early years teacher training"
  EY-graduate:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:
      - Cost: "£7,000"
        Salary: "No"
        Funding available: "Yes"
        Length of training: "Typically 1 academic year"
        Qualification: "Early years teacher status"
      - "Graduate early years teacher training"     
  EY-graduate-employment:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:
      - Cost: "£7,000"
        Salary: "Provided by employer"
        Funding available: "Yes"
        Length of training: "Typically 1 academic year"
        Qualification: "Early years teacher status"
      - "Graduate employment-based early years teacher training"
  EY-self-funded:
    name: feature_table
    arguments:
      - Cost: "Self-funded"
        Salary: "No"
        Funding available: "No"
        Length of training: "3 months"
        Qualification: "Early years teacher status"
      - "Graduate 'assessment only' training"
---

## Become an early years teacher

As an early years teacher you'll work with young children up to the age of 5. Your input will have a lasting and positive effect on their development and wellbeing.

The early years are critical in children's development. You’ll use your knowledge and skills to help young children enjoy high standards of teaching and open their minds to new ideas every day.

### How to become an early years teacher

You’ll need to do 'early years initial teacher training' (EYITT) to achieve 'early years teacher status' (EYTS).

EYTS is different from '[qualified teacher status](/ways-to-train)' (QTS), which is the equivalent for teaching children aged 3 to 18.

Your training will enable you to meet the [early years teachers' standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards).

To start early years teacher training, you’ll need these qualifications (or to demonstrate an equivalent standard):

* maths grade 4 (C)
* English grade 4 (C)
* science grade 4 (C)

If you do postgraduate early years teacher training, you'll need a 2:2 bachelor’s degree with honours or higher.

[Contact accredited early years training providers to apply for a place](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-early-years-lead-organisations/early-years-initial-teacher-training-itt-providers-and-school-direct-lead-organisations).

[Learn about funding](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/early-years-initial-teacher-training-2021-to-2022-funding-guidance).

## Ways to train

$EY-undergraduate$

A full-time bachelor’s degree in an early childhood-related subject leading to EYTS. [Undergraduate tuition fee loans are available from Student Finance England
(SFE)](https://www.gov.uk/student-finance).

$EY-graduate$

Bursaries are available, including:

* £5,000 if you have a first class degree
* £4,000 if you have a 2:1 degree
* £2,000 if you have a 2:2 degree

$EY-graduate-employment$

This one-year part-time route is for graduates working in an early years setting who need further training to meet the [early years teachers' standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards).

Funding of up to £14,000 is available. This would cover course fees of up to £7,000, plus £7,000 for your employer, to help cover their extra costs while you train.

$EY-self-funded$

This self-funded route is ideal for graduates with early-years experience. If you already meet the [early years teachers' standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/early-years-teachers-standards), you can gain EYTS without the need for further training.
