app/views/content/funding-your-training.md, before:

---
  title: "Funding your training"
  description: |-
    Multiple funding options in the form of teaching bursaries, teaching scholarships and
    maintenance loans are available to support your postgraduate teacher
    training.
  date: "2021-03-11"
  image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0013.jpg"
  subtitle: There’s still time to apply and start your training this September. 
  subtitle_button: "Find a course"
  subtitle_link: "/start-teacher-training-this-september"
  backlink: "../"
  navigation: 25
  lid_pixel_event: "Funding"
  jump_links:
    Tuition fee and maintenance loans: "#tuition-fee-and-maintenance-loans"
    Bursaries and scholarships: "#bursaries-and-scholarships"
    If you're a parent or carer: "#if-youre-a-parent-or-carer"
    If you're disabled: "#if-youre-disabled"
    If you come from outside England: "#if-you-come-from-outside-england"
  before-content:
    - content/funding-your-training/funding-widget
  calls_to_action:
    chat:
      name: chat_online
      arguments:
        text: |-
          If you're unsure about whether you qualify for a bursary or
          scholarship you can chat to us, or call us on
          <a href="tel:08003892500">0800 389 2500</a>.
    get-school-experience:
      name: simple
      arguments:
        title: Get school experience
        text: Get a taste of school life, search for school experience near you or online.
        icon: "icon-arrow"
        link_text: Search for school experience
        link_target: "https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/"
    student-finance-calculator:
      name: simple
      arguments:
        icon: "icon-arrow"
        text: "Use the student finance calculator on GOV.UK to find out how much funding you can get."
        link_text: "Student finance calculator"
        link_target: "https://www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator"
    international-candidates:
      name: simple
      arguments:
        icon: "icon-arrow"
        text: "If you come from outside England."
        link_text: "Train to teach as an international candidate"
        link_target: "/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student"

  keywords:
    - Bursaries
    - Bursary
    - Scholarship
    - Scholarships
    - Grant
    - Grants
    - Tuition Fee
    - Maintenance Loan
    - Student Loan
    - Student Finance
    - Parent
    - Carer
    - Disability
    - Disabilities
    - DSA
    - Childcare
    - Financial Support
    - EU
    - European Union
    - Channel Islands
    - Guernsey
    - Jersey
    - Isle of Man
    - Undergraduate
    - Troops to Teachers
    - Army
    - Air Force
    - RAF
    - Navy
    - Military
    - Former
    - Parents
    - Parents’ Learning Allowance
    - PLA
    - Childcare
    - Childcare Grant
    - Adult Dependants’ Grant
    - Disabled students
    - Disabled Students’ Allowances

---


## Tuition fee and maintenance loans

Funding is available to help you [train to teach](/ways-to-train). You can apply for a:

* tuition fee loan of up to £9,250 to cover your teacher training, so you do not need to pay course fees upfront
* maintenance loan of up to £12,382 to help with living costs

You can still apply for a tuition fee and a maintenance loan if you already have a student loan, and regardless of whether you get a bursary or scholarship.

You will only have to make loan repayments once you're earning. Your repayments will not increase if you already have a student loan and take an additional loan for teacher training.

$student-finance-calculator$


## Bursaries and scholarships

You may be eligible for a teaching bursary or scholarship when training to teach.

These are tax-free amounts of money you receive to train in certain subjects. You do not need to pay them back.

You’ll need a first, 2:1, 2:2 degree or a PhD or master's degree to be eligible for a bursary, as well as meeting the bursary scheme's individual terms and conditions.

[Find out more about your eligibility for bursaries](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/funding-initial-teacher-training-itt/funding-initial-teacher-training-itt-academic-year-2021-to-2022).

For a scholarship, each professional scholarship body sets its own criteria. These bodies include:

* the [Royal Society of Chemistry](https://www.rsc.org/awards-funding/funding/teacher-training-scholarships/) (chemistry)
* [BCS The Chartered Institute for IT](https://www.bcs.org/get-qualified/certification-and-scholarships-for-teachers/bcs-computer-teacher-scholarships/) (computing)
* the [Institute of Mathematics and its Applications](https://ima.org.uk/support/mathematics-teacher-training-scholarship/) (maths)
* the [Institute of Physics](https://www.iop.org/about/support-grants/iop-teacher-training-scholarships#gref) (physics)

### Check which subjects have bursaries and scholarships

Teaching bursaries and scholarships are only available for the subjects listed
below. You cannot receive both a bursary and a scholarship.

| Subject       | Bursary  | Scholarship      |
| ------------- | -------: | ---------------: |
| **Chemistry** | £24,000  | £26,000          |
| **Computing** | £24,000  | £26,000          |
| **Maths**     | £24,000  | £26,000          |
| **Physics**   | £24,000  | £26,000          |
| **Classics**  | £10,000  | *N/A*            |
| **Languages** | £10,000  | *N/A*            |
| **Biology**   | £7,000   | *N/A*            |


### Non-graduate bursaries

#### If you're a final year undergraduate student

You may be eligible for a [training bursary of £9,000](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/initial-teacher-training-itt-bursary-funding-manual/initial-teacher-training-bursaries-funding-manual-2021-to-2022-academic-year#undergraduate-bursary) if you're on a secondary maths or physics course leading to '[qualified teacher status](/ways-to-train)' (QTS).

You may also be eligible if you're studying an opt-in QTS course in secondary undergraduate computing, languages, mathematics or physics.

#### If you're a former military personnel

You may be eligible for a [Troops to Teachers](https://www.ucas.com/teaching-option/troops-teachers) tax-free bursary of £40,000 if you're:

* training to teach secondary biology, physics, chemistry, computing, maths or modern foreign languages
* doing an undergraduate degree leading to QTS in England


$chat$

## If you're a parent or carer

 If you have children or other caring responsibilities you may be able to get extra financial support through the following grants and schemes:

* [Childcare Grant](https://www.gov.uk/childcare-grant)
* [Parents' Learning Allowance](https://www.gov.uk/parents-learning-allowance)
* [Adult Dependants’ Grant](https://www.gov.uk/adult-dependants-grant)


## If you're disabled

You may be able to [get support if you’re a student and you’re disabled, have a learning difficulty or health problem](https://www.gov.uk/disabled-students-allowance-dsa/how-to-claim).

[If you do paid training you may also be eligible for support](https://www.gov.uk/access-to-work).

[Learn more about training to teach if you're disabled](/get-support-training-to-teach-if-you-are-disabled).


## If you come from outside England

If you live outside England you may still be eligible for funding to train to teach via:

* a [bursary or scholarship](#bursaries-and-scholarships)
* [student finance](#tuition-fee-and-maintenance-loans)

If you live in [Wales](https://www.studentfinancewales.co.uk/), [Scotland](https://www.saas.gov.uk/) or [Northern Ireland](https://www.studentfinanceni.co.uk/) you’ll need to contact your country’s student finance body.

Contact the education authority if you live in the Channel Islands ([Jersey](https://www.gov.je/Working/Careers/16To19YearOlds/EnteringHigherEducation/FinancingHigherEducationCourses/FundingDegreeProfessionalQualifications/Pages/index.aspx) and [Guernsey](https://www.gov.gg/article/152744/Policies)) or on the [Isle of Man](https://www.gov.im/student-grants).

[Find out more about financial help if you're an applicant from outside the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/train-to-teach-in-england-non-uk-applicants/train-to-teach-in-england-non-uk-applicants#financial-support-for-non-uk-applicants-for-unsalaried-teacher-training-in-england).

$international-candidates$

Commit message:

Keyword changes W/C 26/07/2021
Updating pages with popular keywords:

    - Teaching
    - Teacher training
    - How to become a teacher
    - Teacher training courses

app/views/content/funding-your-training.md, after:

---
  title: "Funding your training"
  description: |-
    Multiple funding options in the form of teaching bursaries, teaching scholarships and
    maintenance loans are available to support your postgraduate teacher
    training.
  date: "2021-03-11"
  image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0013.jpg"
  subtitle: There’s still time to apply and start your training this September. 
  subtitle_button: "Find a course"
  subtitle_link: "/start-teacher-training-this-september"
  backlink: "../"
  navigation: 25
  lid_pixel_event: "Funding"
  jump_links:
    Tuition fee and maintenance loans: "#tuition-fee-and-maintenance-loans"
    Bursaries and scholarships: "#bursaries-and-scholarships"
    If you're a parent or carer: "#if-youre-a-parent-or-carer"
    If you're disabled: "#if-youre-disabled"
    If you come from outside England: "#if-you-come-from-outside-england"
  before-content:
    - content/funding-your-training/funding-widget
  calls_to_action:
    chat:
      name: chat_online
      arguments:
        text: |-
          If you're unsure about whether you qualify for a bursary or
          scholarship you can chat to us, or call us on
          <a href="tel:08003892500">0800 389 2500</a>.
    get-school-experience:
      name: simple
      arguments:
        title: Get school experience
        text: Get a taste of school life, search for school experience near you or online.
        icon: "icon-arrow"
        link_text: Search for school experience
        link_target: "https://schoolexperience.education.gov.uk/"
    student-finance-calculator:
      name: simple
      arguments:
        icon: "icon-arrow"
        text: "Use the student finance calculator on GOV.UK to find out how much funding you can get."
        link_text: "Student finance calculator"
        link_target: "https://www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator"
    international-candidates:
      name: simple
      arguments:
        icon: "icon-arrow"
        text: "If you come from outside England."
        link_text: "Train to teach as an international candidate"
        link_target: "/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student"

  keywords:
    - Bursaries
    - Bursary
    - Scholarship
    - Scholarships
    - Grant
    - Grants
    - Tuition Fee
    - Maintenance Loan
    - Student Loan
    - Student Finance
    - Parent
    - Carer
    - Disability
    - Disabilities
    - DSA
    - Childcare
    - Financial Support
    - EU
    - European Union
    - Channel Islands
    - Guernsey
    - Jersey
    - Isle of Man
    - Undergraduate
    - Troops to Teachers
    - Army
    - Air Force
    - RAF
    - Navy
    - Military
    - Former
    - Parents
    - Parents’ Learning Allowance
    - PLA
    - Childcare
    - Childcare Grant
    - Adult Dependants’ Grant
    - Disabled students
    - Disabled Students’ Allowances
    - Teaching
    - Teacher training
    - How to become a teacher
    - Teacher training courses

---


## Tuition fee and maintenance loans

Funding is available to help you [train to teach](/ways-to-train). You can apply for a:

* tuition fee loan of up to £9,250 to cover your teacher training, so you do not need to pay course fees upfront
* maintenance loan of up to £12,382 to help with living costs

You can still apply for a tuition fee and a maintenance loan if you already have a student loan, and regardless of whether you get a teaching bursary or scholarship.

You will only have to make loan repayments once you're earning. Your repayments will not increase if you already have a student loan and take an additional loan for teacher training.

$student-finance-calculator$


## Bursaries and scholarships

You may be eligible for a teaching bursary or scholarship when training to teach.

These are tax-free amounts of money you receive to train in certain subjects. You do not need to pay them back.

You’ll need a first, 2:1, 2:2 degree or a PhD or master's degree to be eligible for a bursary, as well as meeting the bursary scheme's individual terms and conditions.

[Find out more about your eligibility for teaching bursaries](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/funding-initial-teacher-training-itt/funding-initial-teacher-training-itt-academic-year-2021-to-2022).

For a scholarship, each professional scholarship body sets its own criteria. These bodies include:

* the [Royal Society of Chemistry](https://www.rsc.org/awards-funding/funding/teacher-training-scholarships/) (chemistry)
* [BCS The Chartered Institute for IT](https://www.bcs.org/get-qualified/certification-and-scholarships-for-teachers/bcs-computer-teacher-scholarships/) (computing)
* the [Institute of Mathematics and its Applications](https://ima.org.uk/support/mathematics-teacher-training-scholarship/) (maths)
* the [Institute of Physics](https://www.iop.org/about/support-grants/iop-teacher-training-scholarships#gref) (physics)

### Check which subjects have bursaries and scholarships

Teaching bursaries and scholarships are only available for the subjects listed
below. You cannot receive both a teaching bursary and a scholarship.

| Subject       | Bursary  | Scholarship      |
| ------------- | -------: | ---------------: |
| **Chemistry** | £24,000  | £26,000          |
| **Computing** | £24,000  | £26,000          |
| **Maths**     | £24,000  | £26,000          |
| **Physics**   | £24,000  | £26,000          |
| **Classics**  | £10,000  | *N/A*            |
| **Languages** | £10,000  | *N/A*            |
| **Biology**   | £7,000   | *N/A*            |


### Non-graduate bursaries

#### If you're a final year undergraduate student

You may be eligible for a [training bursary of £9,000](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/initial-teacher-training-itt-bursary-funding-manual/initial-teacher-training-bursaries-funding-manual-2021-to-2022-academic-year#undergraduate-bursary) if you're on a secondary maths or physics course leading to '[qualified teacher status](/ways-to-train)' (QTS).

You may also be eligible if you're studying an opt-in QTS course in secondary undergraduate computing, languages, mathematics or physics.

#### If you're a former military personnel

You may be eligible for a [Troops to Teachers](https://www.ucas.com/teaching-option/troops-teachers) tax-free bursary of £40,000 if you're:

* training to teach secondary biology, physics, chemistry, computing, maths or modern foreign languages
* doing an undergraduate degree leading to QTS in England


$chat$

## If you're a parent or carer

 If you have children or other caring responsibilities you may be able to get extra financial support through the following grants and schemes:

* [Childcare Grant](https://www.gov.uk/childcare-grant)
* [Parents' Learning Allowance](https://www.gov.uk/parents-learning-allowance)
* [Adult Dependants’ Grant](https://www.gov.uk/adult-dependants-grant)


## If you're disabled

You may be able to [get support if you’re a student and you’re disabled, have a learning difficulty or health problem](https://www.gov.uk/disabled-students-allowance-dsa/how-to-claim).

[If you do paid training you may also be eligible for support](https://www.gov.uk/access-to-work).

[Learn more about training to teach if you're disabled](/get-support-training-to-teach-if-you-are-disabled).


## If you come from outside England

If you live outside England you may still be eligible for funding to train to teach via:

* a [bursary or scholarship](#bursaries-and-scholarships)
* [student finance](#tuition-fee-and-maintenance-loans)

If you live in [Wales](https://www.studentfinancewales.co.uk/), [Scotland](https://www.saas.gov.uk/) or [Northern Ireland](https://www.studentfinanceni.co.uk/) you’ll need to contact your country’s student finance body.

Contact the education authority if you live in the Channel Islands ([Jersey](https://www.gov.je/Working/Careers/16To19YearOlds/EnteringHigherEducation/FinancingHigherEducationCourses/FundingDegreeProfessionalQualifications/Pages/index.aspx) and [Guernsey](https://www.gov.gg/article/152744/Policies)) or on the [Isle of Man](https://www.gov.im/student-grants).

[Find out more about financial help if you're an applicant from outside the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/train-to-teach-in-england-non-uk-applicants/train-to-teach-in-england-non-uk-applicants#financial-support-for-non-uk-applicants-for-unsalaried-teacher-training-in-england).

$international-candidates$
