app/views/content/initial-teacher-training.md, before:

---
title: Initial teacher training (ITT)
related_content:
    Diary of a trainee teacher : "/blog/a-diary-of-a-trainee-teacher"
    Choosing the right teacher training course provider : "/blog/choosing-the-right-teacher-training-course-provider"
    Train to be a teacher : "/train-to-be-a-teacher"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/events-near-you
---

Your initial teacher training (ITT) will vary depending on your course provider and the qualifications you're working towards.

You'll spend most of your time in school placements with some time dedicated to theoretical learning. Your training is likely to include a combination of:

* unobserved and observed teaching 
* taught sessions
* seminars and workshops
* tasks and assignments
* engagement with academic or professional research

The theoretical part of your training might be delivered by a university or in a school. Some training courses will be all school-based, but this does not mean that you’ll spend all your time teaching.

You’ll also have a mentor to support you in your school placements and learning. They can provide feedback and guidance.

There are full-time and part-time teacher training courses available.

[Find postgraduate teacher training courses](https://www.find-postgraduate-teacher-training.service.gov.uk/).

## What you’ll learn in initial teacher training

What you’ll learn will depend on your course and the qualifications it offers. Some teacher training courses award [qualified teacher status (QTS)](/what-is-qts), while some award QTS with [PGCE or PGDE](/what-is-a-pgce).

Initial teacher training helps you meet the [Teachers’ Standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teachers-standards). You must meet the Teachers’ Standards to be awarded QTS.

All initial teacher training will help you:

* set high expectations which inspire, motivate and challenge pupils
* promote good progress and outcomes by pupils
* develop good subject and curriculum knowledge
* plan and teach well structured lessons
* adapt teaching to respond to the strengths and needs of all pupils
* make accurate and productive use of assessment
* manage behaviour effectively to ensure a good and safe learning
environment
* make a positive contribution to your school community

## Your classroom placements

Typically, you will get 120 days of classroom experience in a minimum of two schools. Through your placements, you’ll have the opportunity to teach, plan, observe and research.

You’ll get classroom experience whether you do school-led or university-led training. School-led training programmes like School Direct usually include more time in school than university-led training.

Some courses may offer placements in specific kinds of schools, like special schools. You can talk to your course provider about the opportunities available.

If you apply to train with a specific school, your placements may not take place within that school. They may take place at a school within their partnership or trust. Speak to your course provider for more details.

## Your teacher training timetable

Full-time teacher training usually takes 9 months, in line with the academic year. Part-time teacher training can take 18 to 24 months.

Some courses begin with time spent in a university or school where you start your theoretical learning. Your course pattern will be different depending on your training provider.

School placements vary in length and structure, but the minimum length is usually around 6 weeks. You should check with your training provider what their course and placement patterns are.

Read about [Cindy’s first week as a trainee teacher doing a PGDE with QTS](/blog/my-first-week-as-a-trainee-teacher).

## How you’ll be assessed 

There are two types of assessments you’ll have as part of your training - formative and summative. Formative assessments are less formal and happen throughout your course. Summative assessments are formal assessments, usually at the end of your course.

You might be assessed through written assignments, lesson observations, or by a portfolio of evidence showing how you’re meeting the [Teachers’ Standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teachers-standards). Assessments vary by provider and the qualifications you’re working towards.

Commit message:

Adding meta description to ITT page

app/views/content/initial-teacher-training.md, after:

---
title: "Initial teacher training (ITT)"
heading: "Initial teacher training (ITT)"
description: |-
  Find out what initial teacher training (ITT) is like. Learn about your classroom placements, the theoretical learning, and how you’ll be assessed.
related_content:
    Diary of a trainee teacher : "/blog/a-diary-of-a-trainee-teacher"
    Choosing the right teacher training course provider : "/blog/choosing-the-right-teacher-training-course-provider"
    Train to be a teacher : "/train-to-be-a-teacher"
promo_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/promos/events-near-you
---

Your initial teacher training (ITT) will vary depending on your course provider and the qualifications you're working towards.

You'll spend most of your time in school placements with some time dedicated to theoretical learning. Your training is likely to include a combination of:

* unobserved and observed teaching 
* taught sessions
* seminars and workshops
* tasks and assignments
* engagement with academic or professional research

The theoretical part of your training might be delivered by a university or in a school. Some training courses will be all school-based, but this does not mean that you’ll spend all your time teaching.

You’ll also have a mentor to support you in your school placements and learning. They can provide feedback and guidance.

There are full-time and part-time teacher training courses available.

[Find postgraduate teacher training courses](https://www.find-postgraduate-teacher-training.service.gov.uk/).

## What you’ll learn in initial teacher training

What you’ll learn will depend on your course and the qualifications it offers. Some teacher training courses award [qualified teacher status (QTS)](/what-is-qts), while some award QTS with [PGCE or PGDE](/what-is-a-pgce).

Initial teacher training helps you meet the [Teachers’ Standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teachers-standards). You must meet the Teachers’ Standards to be awarded QTS.

All initial teacher training will help you:

* set high expectations which inspire, motivate and challenge pupils
* promote good progress and outcomes by pupils
* develop good subject and curriculum knowledge
* plan and teach well structured lessons
* adapt teaching to respond to the strengths and needs of all pupils
* make accurate and productive use of assessment
* manage behaviour effectively to ensure a good and safe learning
environment
* make a positive contribution to your school community

## Your classroom placements

Typically, you will get 120 days of classroom experience in a minimum of two schools. Through your placements, you’ll have the opportunity to teach, plan, observe and research.

You’ll get classroom experience whether you do school-led or university-led training. School-led training programmes like School Direct usually include more time in school than university-led training.

Some courses may offer placements in specific kinds of schools, like special schools. You can talk to your course provider about the opportunities available.

If you apply to train with a specific school, your placements may not take place within that school. They may take place at a school within their partnership or trust. Speak to your course provider for more details.

## Your teacher training timetable

Full-time teacher training usually takes 9 months, in line with the academic year. Part-time teacher training can take 18 to 24 months.

Some courses begin with time spent in a university or school where you start your theoretical learning. Your course pattern will be different depending on your training provider.

School placements vary in length and structure, but the minimum length is usually around 6 weeks. You should check with your training provider what their course and placement patterns are.

Read about [Cindy’s first week as a trainee teacher doing a PGDE with QTS](/blog/my-first-week-as-a-trainee-teacher).

## How you’ll be assessed 

There are two types of assessments you’ll have as part of your training - formative and summative. Formative assessments are less formal and happen throughout your course. Summative assessments are formal assessments, usually at the end of your course.

You might be assessed through written assignments, lesson observations, or by a portfolio of evidence showing how you’re meeting the [Teachers’ Standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teachers-standards). Assessments vary by provider and the qualifications you’re working towards.
