app/views/content/international-returners.md, before:

---
title: Return to teaching from overseas
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0014.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
description: |-
  Return to England to teach with the help of a teacher training adviser.
  Courses and events are available to help make your transition easier.
date: "2020-04-07"
jump_links-dt:
  Help finding your next role: "#using-dfes-teaching-vacancies-service-to-find-your-next-role"
  Return to teaching success stories: "#return-to-teaching-success-stories"
  Extra support for shortage subjects: "#extra-support-for-shortage-subjects"
  Information on support, CPD and salaries: "#continuous-professional-development-cpd-and-teaching-salaries"
  A step-by-step guide on coming home to teach: "#return-to-teach-in-england-step-by-step"
accordion:
  numbered: true
  content_after_accordion:
    partial: content/international-returners/after-accordion
  steps:
    Download our information pack:
      partial: content/international-returners/download-info-pack
    Check your qualifications:
      partial: content/international-returners/check-your-qualifications
    Find your next role:
      partial: content/international-returners/find-your-next-role
    Support for shortage subjects:
      partial: content/international-returners/support-for-shortage-subjects
    Get ready to apply:
      partial: content/international-returners/get-ready-to-apply
    Read up on changes to English schools:
      partial: content/international-returners/read-up-on-changes-to-english-schools
    Get started on your personal and professional admin:
      partial: content/international-returners/get-started-on-your-personal-and-professional-admin
    Research visas and immigration:
      partial: content/international-returners/research-visas-and-immigration
keywords:
  - International
  - International returner
  - Returners
  - Return
  - Abroad
  - Back
  - vacancies
  - vacancy
  - jobs
  - network
  - interview
  - ofsted
  - ofsted framework
  - types of school
  - school types
  - teacher standards
  - teachers standards
  - standards
  - chartered college of teaching
---

Are you a UK-trained teacher and UK citizen currently working abroad? Our
children and young people need your international skills, experience and
perspective.

If you're thinking about coming home to teach, we want to help.

If you are a non-UK citizen interested in teaching or training to teach in
England, please read our
[guidance for international teachers and trainees](/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student)
to learn how we can support your journey to the UK.

### Return to teaching success stories

Read [inspiring case studies](/my-story-into-teaching/international-career-changers)
and [access the slides from our recent webinar](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kqQPsjW45JjXgBA6A5KnxyTU_RHstzG8/view?usp=sharing)
which included a live Q&A with a headteacher who has successfully made the move
back home.

## Return to teach in England: step by step

Commit message:

Add links to events for international returners

app/views/content/international-returners.md, after:

---
title: Return to teaching from overseas
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0014.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
description: |-
  Return to England to teach with the help of a teacher training adviser.
  Courses and events are available to help make your transition easier.
date: "2020-04-07"
jump_links-dt:
  Help finding your next role: "#using-dfes-teaching-vacancies-service-to-find-your-next-role"
  Return to teaching success stories: "#return-to-teaching-success-stories"
  Extra support for shortage subjects: "#extra-support-for-shortage-subjects"
  Information on support, CPD and salaries: "#continuous-professional-development-cpd-and-teaching-salaries"
  A step-by-step guide on coming home to teach: "#return-to-teach-in-england-step-by-step"
accordion:
  numbered: true
  content_after_accordion:
    partial: content/international-returners/after-accordion
  steps:
    Download our information pack:
      partial: content/international-returners/download-info-pack
    Check your qualifications:
      partial: content/international-returners/check-your-qualifications
    Find your next role:
      partial: content/international-returners/find-your-next-role
    Support for shortage subjects:
      partial: content/international-returners/support-for-shortage-subjects
    Get ready to apply:
      partial: content/international-returners/get-ready-to-apply
    Read up on changes to English schools:
      partial: content/international-returners/read-up-on-changes-to-english-schools
    Get started on your personal and professional admin:
      partial: content/international-returners/get-started-on-your-personal-and-professional-admin
    Research visas and immigration:
      partial: content/international-returners/research-visas-and-immigration
keywords:
  - International
  - International returner
  - Returners
  - Return
  - Abroad
  - Back
  - vacancies
  - vacancy
  - jobs
  - network
  - interview
  - ofsted
  - ofsted framework
  - types of school
  - school types
  - teacher standards
  - teachers standards
  - standards
  - chartered college of teaching
 right_column:
  ctas:
  - title: Take the next step
    text: |
      Get support to take the next step at an event.
    link_text: "Attend an event"
    link_target: "/events"
    icon: "icon-calendar"
---

Are you a UK-trained teacher and UK citizen currently working abroad? Our
children and young people need your international skills, experience and
perspective.

If you're thinking about coming home to teach, we want to help.

If you are a non-UK citizen interested in teaching or training to teach in
England, please read our
[guidance for international teachers and trainees](/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student) and [register for our next online event](/event-categories/online-q-as)
to learn how we can support your journey to the UK.

### Return to teaching success stories

Read [inspiring case studies](/my-story-into-teaching/international-career-changers)
and [access the slides from our recent webinar](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kqQPsjW45JjXgBA6A5KnxyTU_RHstzG8/view?usp=sharing)
which included a live Q&A with a headteacher who has successfully made the move
back home.

## Return to teach in England: step by step
