app/views/content/my-story-into-teaching.md, before:

---
layout: "layouts/stories/landing"
title: My story into teaching
description: |-
  Teachers offer an insight into day-to-day school life and the satisfaction
  that comes with making a difference to young people's lives.
date: "2021-02-02"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0010.jpg"
hide_page_helpful_question: true
navigation: 35
fullwidth: true
featured_page:
  image: media/images/content/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-teacher.jpg
  heading: Day in the life of a teacher
  subheading: “Every day is so different”
  text: >
    There’s more to teaching than being in class. Teachers enjoy planning lessons, 
    working with colleagues, talking to parents and running school clubs.
  link: 
    text: Follow a teacher’s day
    path: /a-day-in-the-life-of-a-teacher
sections:
  Changing career:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-changers
    text: >
      If you are thinking of changing your career, you’re in good company. Every
      year, many people decide to move from other careers into teaching. You can see
      people who’ve chosen to switch career and make a difference to young people’s
      lives.
    stories:
      - name: Will
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-changers/transferring-my-skills-to-teaching
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-will.jpg
        snippet: Transferring my skills to teaching
      - name: Peter
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-changers/financiers-future-in-maths
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-peter.jpg
        snippet: Financier's future in maths
      - name: Zainab
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-changers/school-experience-helped-me-decide-to-switch
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-zainab.jpg
        snippet: School experience helped me decide to switch
  International returning teachers:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/international-career-changers
    text: >
      It’s a great time to train to teach, with a wide array of training
      options and support available. Find out what you can expect from current
      trainees and teachers.
    stories:
      - name: Katie
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/international-career-changers/returning-to-teaching-with-international-experience
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-katie.png
        snippet: Returning to teaching with international experience
      - name: Shaun
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/international-career-changers/returning-to-teaching-with-support-from-an-adviser
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-shaun.jpg
        snippet: Returning to teaching with support from an adviser
  Teacher training:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/teacher-training-stories
    text: >
      It’s a great time to train to teach, with a wide array of training
      options and support available. Find out what you can expect from current
      trainees and teachers.
    stories:
      - name: Emma
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/teacher-training-stories/why-dont-you-teach-miss
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-emma.jpg
        snippet: Why don’t you teach, Miss?
      - name: Hasina
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/teacher-training-stories/teacher-training-its-worth-it
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-generic.jpg
        snippet: "Teacher training: it’s worth it"
      - name: Nathan
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/teacher-training-stories/salaried-teacher-training-classroom-learning
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-nathan.jpg
        snippet: "Salaried teacher training: classroom learning"
  Making a difference:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/making-a-difference
    text: >
      Teachers talk about making a real difference to pupils’ learning and
      lives - and the job satisfaction that comes with a career in teaching.
      Find out how these teachers are helping pupils realise their ambitions,
      and enjoying every moment.
    stories:
      - name: Danny
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/making-a-difference/turning-a-tough-lesson-into-success
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-danny.jpg
        snippet: Turning a tough lesson into a success
      - name: Sandra
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/making-a-difference/going-back-and-giving-back
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-sandra.jpg
        snippet: Going back and giving back
      - name: Gavin
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/making-a-difference/no-two-days-are-the-same
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-gavin.jpg
        snippet: No two days are the same
  Career progression:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-progression
    text: >
      Teachers talk about making a real difference to pupils’ learning and
      lives - and the job satisfaction that comes with a career in teaching.
      Find out how these teachers are helping pupils realise their ambitions,
      and enjoying every moment.
    stories:
      - name: Paul
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-progression/grasp-every-opportunity
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-paul.jpg
        snippet: Grasp every opportunity
      - name: Sarah
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-progression/nqt-to-head-of-biology
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-sarah-f.jpg
        snippet: NQT to head of biology in 2 years
      - name: Jon
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-progression/leaping-to-head-of-department
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-jon.jpg
        snippet: Leaping to head of department
  Returning to teaching:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/returners
    text: >
      Teachers talk about making a real difference to pupils' learning and
      lives - and the job satisfaction that comes with a career in teaching.
      Find out how these teachers are helping pupils realise their ambitions,
      and enjoying every moment.
    stories:
      - name: Jill
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/returners/getting-back-into-the-classroom
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-jill.jpg
        snippet: Getting back into the classroom
      - name: Helen
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/returners/top-tips-for-returning-teachers
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-helen.jpg
        snippet: Top tips for returning teachers
keywords:
  - Changing career
  - Career change
  - International
  - Return
  - Returner
  - International Returner
  - Teacher training
  - Stories
  - Make a difference
  - Making a difference
  - Progression
  - inspire
  - career
  - inspiration
  - case study
  - case studies
  - examples
---

Commit message:

Keyword changes W/C 26/07/2021
Updating page with popular keywords

  - Teaching
  - Teacher training
  - How to become a teacher
  - Teacher training courses

app/views/content/my-story-into-teaching.md, after:

---
layout: "layouts/stories/landing"
title: My story into teaching
description: |-
  Teachers offer an insight into how to become a teacher, day-to-day school life and the satisfaction
  that comes with making a difference to young people's lives.
date: "2021-02-02"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0010.jpg"
hide_page_helpful_question: true
navigation: 35
fullwidth: true
featured_page:
  image: media/images/content/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-teacher.jpg
  heading: Day in the life of a teacher
  subheading: “Every day is so different”
  text: >
    There’s more to teaching than being in class. Teachers enjoy planning lessons, 
    working with colleagues, talking to parents and running school clubs.
  link: 
    text: Follow a teacher’s day
    path: /a-day-in-the-life-of-a-teacher
sections:
  Changing career:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-changers
    text: >
      If you are thinking of changing your career, you’re in good company. Every
      year, many people decide to move from other careers into teaching. You can see
      people who’ve chosen to switch career and make a difference to young people’s
      lives.
    stories:
      - name: Will
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-changers/transferring-my-skills-to-teaching
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-will.jpg
        snippet: Transferring my skills to teaching
      - name: Peter
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-changers/financiers-future-in-maths
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-peter.jpg
        snippet: Financier's future in maths
      - name: Zainab
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-changers/school-experience-helped-me-decide-to-switch
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-zainab.jpg
        snippet: School experience helped me decide to switch
  International returning teachers:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/international-career-changers
    text: >
      It’s a great time to bring your international teaching experience into the classroom. Find out more from others who have returned to teaching from overseas.   
    stories:
      - name: Katie
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/international-career-changers/returning-to-teaching-with-international-experience
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-katie.png
        snippet: Returning to teaching with international experience
      - name: Shaun
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/international-career-changers/returning-to-teaching-with-support-from-an-adviser
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-shaun.jpg
        snippet: Returning to teaching with support from an adviser
  Teacher training:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/teacher-training-stories
    text: >
      It’s a great time start your training, with a wide array of teacher training courses
      and support available. Find out what you can expect from current
      trainees and teachers.
    stories:
      - name: Emma
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/teacher-training-stories/why-dont-you-teach-miss
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-emma.jpg
        snippet: Why don’t you teach, Miss?
      - name: Hasina
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/teacher-training-stories/teacher-training-its-worth-it
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-generic.jpg
        snippet: "Teacher training: it’s worth it"
      - name: Nathan
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/teacher-training-stories/salaried-teacher-training-classroom-learning
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-nathan.jpg
        snippet: "Salaried teacher training: classroom learning"
  Making a difference:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/making-a-difference
    text: >
      Teachers talk about making a real difference to pupils’ learning and
      lives - and the job satisfaction that comes with a career in teaching.
      Find out how these teachers are helping pupils realise their ambitions,
      and enjoying every moment.
    stories:
      - name: Danny
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/making-a-difference/turning-a-tough-lesson-into-success
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-danny.jpg
        snippet: Turning a tough lesson into a success
      - name: Sandra
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/making-a-difference/going-back-and-giving-back
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-sandra.jpg
        snippet: Going back and giving back
      - name: Gavin
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/making-a-difference/no-two-days-are-the-same
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-gavin.jpg
        snippet: No two days are the same
  Career progression:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-progression
    text: >
      Teachers talk about making a real difference to pupils’ learning and
      lives - and the job satisfaction that comes with a career in teaching.
      Find out how these teachers are helping pupils realise their ambitions,
      and enjoying every moment.
    stories:
      - name: Paul
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-progression/grasp-every-opportunity
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-paul.jpg
        snippet: Grasp every opportunity
      - name: Sarah
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-progression/nqt-to-head-of-biology
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-sarah-f.jpg
        snippet: NQT to head of biology in 2 years
      - name: Jon
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/career-progression/leaping-to-head-of-department
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-jon.jpg
        snippet: Leaping to head of department
  Returning to teaching:
    link: /my-story-into-teaching/returners
    text: >
      Teachers talk about making a real difference to pupils' learning and
      lives - and the job satisfaction that comes with a career in teaching.
      Find out how these teachers are helping pupils realise their ambitions,
      and enjoying every moment.
    stories:
      - name: Jill
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/returners/getting-back-into-the-classroom
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-jill.jpg
        snippet: Getting back into the classroom
      - name: Helen
        link: /my-story-into-teaching/returners/top-tips-for-returning-teachers
        image: media/images/content/stories/stories-helen.jpg
        snippet: Top tips for returning teachers
keywords:
  - Changing career
  - Career change
  - International
  - Return
  - Returner
  - International Returner
  - Teacher training
  - Stories
  - Make a difference
  - Making a difference
  - Progression
  - inspire
  - career
  - inspiration
  - case study
  - case studies
  - examples
  - Teaching
  - Teacher training
  - How to become a teacher
  - Teacher training courses
---
