app/views/content/research.md, before:

---
title: Research
description: |-
  A record of recent surveys and research carried out on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign, such as the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic on people's career aspirations.
date: "2021-05-17"
image: false
calls_to_action:
  bringit-report:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read the Bring it report summary
      file_path: media/documents/bringit-report.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 258KB
      published_at: 18 November 2021
  breakthrough-moments:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read the Breakthrough moments report summary
      file_path: media/documents/breakthrough-moments.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 274KB
      published_at: 29 July 2021
  my-favourite-subject:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read the My favourite subject report summary
      file_path: media/documents/my-favourite-subject.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 266KB
      published_at: 20 May 2021
  exploring-career-aspirations-in-the-wake-of-2020:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read the Decade dilemmas report summary
      file_path: media/documents/exploring-career-aspirations-in-the-wake-of-2020.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 754KB
      published_at: 19 January 2021
  it-takes-you-to-teach:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the career aspirations and what it takes to teach survey
      file_path: media/documents/it-takes-you-to-teach.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 764KB
      published_at: 23 September 2020
  thank-a-teacher:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the appreciation for teachers survey
      file_path: media/documents/thank-a-teacher.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 754KB
      published_at: 20 May 2020
  millenial-career-crossroads:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read the Millennial Career Crossroads report summary
      file_path: media/documents/millenial-career-crossroads.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 752KB
      published_at: 7 January 2020
  career-conundrum:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the career change conundrum survey
      file_path: media/documents/career-conundrum.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 460KB
      published_at: 4 September 2019
  career-change-research:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the switching careers survey
      file_path: media/documents/career-change-research.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 450KB
      published_at: 3 January 2019
  perceptions-of-influence:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the perceptions of influence survey
      file_path: media/documents/perceptions-of-influence.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 450KB
      published_at: 14 November 2018
  career-survey-summary:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the careers survey
      file_path: media/documents/career-survey-summary.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 424KB
      published_at: 29 November 2017
      updated_at: 6 April 2018
  soft-messaging:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the soft messaging survey
      file_path: media/documents/soft-messaging.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 459KB 
      published_at: 10 November 2016
keywords:
  - Research
---

## Bring it - exploring the extent to which people feel they can be themselves at work

Kindred Agency commissioned Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of Get Into Teaching exploring the views of the working population in England. The purpose was to gain insights on how much people feel they can be themselves and express their true personality in their workplace.

$bringit-report$

## Breakthrough Moments – exploring what personal achievement means to young adults

Kindred Agency commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign exploring the views of university students and recent graduates. The purpose of the survey was to gain further insights on what achievement means to this group when it comes to their career path, and what breakthrough moments might mean in a future job role, as well as the extent to which they feel that their school teachers helped to equip them to achieve breakthrough moments in their life so far.

$breakthrough-moments$

## My favourite subject – exploring people’s favourite subjects and the lasting impact of teachers

Kindred Agency commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign to explore people’s favourite subjects from their time at school, and the impact of teachers well beyond the classroom years. The purpose of the survey was aimed at understanding the extent to which people feel that their teachers’ passion for their subject helped spark an interest in their favourite subjects, and whether people’s current job or career is related to one of their favourite subjects from their time at school. 

$my-favourite-subject$

## Decade dilemmas – exploring people’s career aspirations in the wake of 2020

Kindred Agency commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign to explore people’s job or career aspirations at the start of the year and how these have changed as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020.
The purpose of the survey was aimed at gaining further insights about those who may be considering a career change. It covers the kind of things respondents want to do more of as a result of their experiences and all they have learnt or reflected on. Teaching as a career is explored as part of the research as well as people’s attitudes to teachers following their efforts as key workers during the pandemic and in society more generally.

$exploring-career-aspirations-in-the-wake-of-2020$

## Exploring the career aspirations of students and graduates and what it takes to teach

Kindred Agency commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out two surveys on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign – one to explore the career aspirations of students and recent graduates, and alongside this a survey asking teachers to cite the key attributes they believe are needed to do their job and the aspects of teaching they believe would most appeal to new recruits.

For students and recent graduates, the purpose of the survey was also to provide insights about the qualities and skills they most possess, as well as what they most hope to gain when considering a future career, including teaching. For the teacher survey, the purpose was to understand what attributes and skills they believed to be most useful for being a teacher, the best aspects of their job and what it enables them to do.

$it-takes-you-to-teach$

## Exploring parents’ appreciation for teachers and experience of supporting home learning during COVID-19

Kindred Agency, in partnership with SKV Communications, commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign, asking parents of primary and secondary school-aged children about how they feel towards teachers and their experience of home learning, during the coronavirus outbreak when schools remained closed to most pupils.  

The purpose of the survey was aimed at gaining further insights from parents, during this unprecedented period, and exploring the role teachers continue to play in the lives of young people. 

$thank-a-teacher$

## The Millennial Career Crossroads

Kindred Agency, in partnership with SKV Communications, commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign, asking the full-time, part-time working public or job seekers (those aged between 21-40 years old and who studied in higher education) about their inclination and motivation for making significant changes to their lifestyle, including changing careers.

$millenial-career-crossroads$

## Exploring the career change conundrum

Kindred Agency, in partnership with SKV Communications, commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign, asking the general public about their inclination and motivation for changing careers, specifically at the start of a new academic year.

$career-conundrum$

## Propensity for switching careers

Kindred Agency, in partnership with SKV Communications, commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign, asking the general public about their propensity for changing career.

$career-change-research$

## Perceptions of influence survey

Kindred Agency, in partnership with SKV Communications, commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey asking the general public about the people who influence them, the significance of this influence and the influence and impact their teachers had on them. 

$perceptions-of-influence$

## Careers survey

Censuswide were commissioned to ask university degree-level students and graduates from the last 18 months about their career aspirations. 

$career-survey-summary$

## Soft messaging survey

On behalf of [NCTL](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/national-college-for-teaching-and-leadership), SKV Communications and Kindred Agency commissioned Censuswide to carry out a survey. This asked teachers and the non-teaching public from other professions about the extent to which they experience emotionally rewarding benefits from their career.

$soft-messaging$

Commit message:

Upload be the change report

app/views/content/research.md, after:

---
title: Research
description: |-
  A record of recent surveys and research carried out on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign, such as the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic on people's career aspirations.
date: "2021-05-17"
image: false
calls_to_action:
  bringit-report:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read the Bring it report summary
      file_path: media/documents/bringit-report.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 258KB
      published_at: 18 November 2021
  be-the-career-change:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read the Be the career change report summary
      file_path: media/documents/BeTheCareerChangeCampaign_TeachingJan_Report_vFINAL.pdf 
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 244KB
      published_at: 13 January 2022
  breakthrough-moments:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read the Breakthrough moments report summary
      file_path: media/documents/breakthrough-moments.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 274KB
      published_at: 29 July 2021
  my-favourite-subject:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read the My favourite subject report summary
      file_path: media/documents/my-favourite-subject.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 266KB
      published_at: 20 May 2021
  exploring-career-aspirations-in-the-wake-of-2020:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read the Decade dilemmas report summary
      file_path: media/documents/exploring-career-aspirations-in-the-wake-of-2020.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 754KB
      published_at: 19 January 2021
  it-takes-you-to-teach:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the career aspirations and what it takes to teach survey
      file_path: media/documents/it-takes-you-to-teach.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 764KB
      published_at: 23 September 2020
  thank-a-teacher:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the appreciation for teachers survey
      file_path: media/documents/thank-a-teacher.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 754KB
      published_at: 20 May 2020
  millenial-career-crossroads:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read the Millennial Career Crossroads report summary
      file_path: media/documents/millenial-career-crossroads.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 752KB
      published_at: 7 January 2020
  career-conundrum:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the career change conundrum survey
      file_path: media/documents/career-conundrum.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 460KB
      published_at: 4 September 2019
  career-change-research:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the switching careers survey
      file_path: media/documents/career-change-research.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 450KB
      published_at: 3 January 2019
  perceptions-of-influence:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the perceptions of influence survey
      file_path: media/documents/perceptions-of-influence.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 450KB
      published_at: 14 November 2018
  career-survey-summary:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the careers survey
      file_path: media/documents/career-survey-summary.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 424KB
      published_at: 29 November 2017
      updated_at: 6 April 2018
  soft-messaging:
    name: attachment
    arguments:
      text: Read a summary of the soft messaging survey
      file_path: media/documents/soft-messaging.pdf
      file_type: PDF
      file_size: 459KB 
      published_at: 10 November 2016
keywords:
  - Research
---

## Be The Career Change: exploring how people are feeling about their careers

Kindred Agency commissioned Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign exploring the views of the working population in England. The purpose was to gain insights on how people are feeling about their careers two years on from the onset of the pandemic

$be-the-career-change$

## Bring it - exploring the extent to which people feel they can be themselves at work

Kindred Agency commissioned Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of Get Into Teaching exploring the views of the working population in England. The purpose was to gain insights on how much people feel they can be themselves and express their true personality in their workplace.

$bringit-report$

## Breakthrough Moments – exploring what personal achievement means to young adults

Kindred Agency commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign exploring the views of university students and recent graduates. The purpose of the survey was to gain further insights on what achievement means to this group when it comes to their career path, and what breakthrough moments might mean in a future job role, as well as the extent to which they feel that their school teachers helped to equip them to achieve breakthrough moments in their life so far.

$breakthrough-moments$

## My favourite subject – exploring people’s favourite subjects and the lasting impact of teachers

Kindred Agency commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign to explore people’s favourite subjects from their time at school, and the impact of teachers well beyond the classroom years. The purpose of the survey was aimed at understanding the extent to which people feel that their teachers’ passion for their subject helped spark an interest in their favourite subjects, and whether people’s current job or career is related to one of their favourite subjects from their time at school. 

$my-favourite-subject$

## Decade dilemmas – exploring people’s career aspirations in the wake of 2020

Kindred Agency commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign to explore people’s job or career aspirations at the start of the year and how these have changed as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020.
The purpose of the survey was aimed at gaining further insights about those who may be considering a career change. It covers the kind of things respondents want to do more of as a result of their experiences and all they have learnt or reflected on. Teaching as a career is explored as part of the research as well as people’s attitudes to teachers following their efforts as key workers during the pandemic and in society more generally.

$exploring-career-aspirations-in-the-wake-of-2020$

## Exploring the career aspirations of students and graduates and what it takes to teach

Kindred Agency commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out two surveys on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign – one to explore the career aspirations of students and recent graduates, and alongside this a survey asking teachers to cite the key attributes they believe are needed to do their job and the aspects of teaching they believe would most appeal to new recruits.

For students and recent graduates, the purpose of the survey was also to provide insights about the qualities and skills they most possess, as well as what they most hope to gain when considering a future career, including teaching. For the teacher survey, the purpose was to understand what attributes and skills they believed to be most useful for being a teacher, the best aspects of their job and what it enables them to do.

$it-takes-you-to-teach$

## Exploring parents’ appreciation for teachers and experience of supporting home learning during COVID-19

Kindred Agency, in partnership with SKV Communications, commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign, asking parents of primary and secondary school-aged children about how they feel towards teachers and their experience of home learning, during the coronavirus outbreak when schools remained closed to most pupils.  

The purpose of the survey was aimed at gaining further insights from parents, during this unprecedented period, and exploring the role teachers continue to play in the lives of young people. 

$thank-a-teacher$

## The Millennial Career Crossroads

Kindred Agency, in partnership with SKV Communications, commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign, asking the full-time, part-time working public or job seekers (those aged between 21-40 years old and who studied in higher education) about their inclination and motivation for making significant changes to their lifestyle, including changing careers.

$millenial-career-crossroads$

## Exploring the career change conundrum

Kindred Agency, in partnership with SKV Communications, commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign, asking the general public about their inclination and motivation for changing careers, specifically at the start of a new academic year.

$career-conundrum$

## Propensity for switching careers

Kindred Agency, in partnership with SKV Communications, commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey on behalf of the Get Into Teaching campaign, asking the general public about their propensity for changing career.

$career-change-research$

## Perceptions of influence survey

Kindred Agency, in partnership with SKV Communications, commissioned research company Censuswide to carry out a survey asking the general public about the people who influence them, the significance of this influence and the influence and impact their teachers had on them. 

$perceptions-of-influence$

## Careers survey

Censuswide were commissioned to ask university degree-level students and graduates from the last 18 months about their career aspirations. 

$career-survey-summary$

## Soft messaging survey

On behalf of [NCTL](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/national-college-for-teaching-and-leadership), SKV Communications and Kindred Agency commissioned Censuswide to carry out a survey. This asked teachers and the non-teaching public from other professions about the extent to which they experience emotionally rewarding benefits from their career.

$soft-messaging$
