app/views/content/returning-to-teaching.md, before:

---
title: "Return to teaching"
description: |-
  Our return to teaching advisers can advise you on making a return to
  teaching, finding a role or joining the National Tutoring Programme.
date: "2021-06-18"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0010.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
keywords:
  - Returner
  - Return
  - Returning
  - Already
  - Qualified
  - Existing
  - National Tutoring Programme
  - NTP
  - Teaching Jobs
  - Unqualified teacher
  - Workload
  - Equality Act
  - Teacher Vacancies
  - Jobs
  - Protected Characteristics
  - BAME
  - BAMEed
  - LGBT
  - LGBTEd
  - WomenEd
  - Disability
  - DisabilityEd
  - back
  - vacancies
  - teach again
  - tutor
  - QTS
calls_to_action:
  get-a-tta:
    name: simple
    arguments:
      text: "Return to teaching advisers specialise in helping returning teachers with qualified teacher status (QTS) get back into the classroom."
      link_text: "Get a return to teaching adviser"
      link_target: "/tta-service"
      icon: "icon-person"
right_column:
  ctas:
  - title: Return from overseas
    text: |
      Are you a UK-trained teacher and UK citizen currently working abroad?
    link_text: "Return to England to teach"
    link_target: "/international-returners"
    icon: "icon-person"
  - title: Take the next step
    text: |
      Get support to take the next step at an event.
    link_text: "Attend an event"
    link_target: "/events"
    icon: "icon-calendar"
quote:
  q-helen-returner:
    text: "Don’t necessarily expect to get the first job you apply for and don’t get disheartened if you’re not successful."
    name: "Helen"
    job_title: "Returning teacher"
---

Returning to teaching can be easier than you expect.

More than ever, our children and young people need your skills and experience back in the classroom.  

If you’re thinking about returning to teaching, or if you’re qualified to teach but have never taught in a state school in England, we can help.  

<div data-controller="aspect-ratio" data-aspect-ratio-width-value="560" data-aspect-ratio-height-value="290">
  <iframe 
    loading="lazy"
    src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/_oQ4DTXkGHk" 
    frameborder="0" 
    allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" 
    allowfullscreen
  ></iframe>
</div>

If you’re thinking about returning to the classroom, you might want to [get a return to teaching adviser](https://adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/). They can give you free one-to-one support, helping you get back into teaching. 

## Why now

Thousands of former teachers return to teaching each year.

Now could be a great time for you to become a teacher again and help support education recovery.

Here at the Department for Education, we’re taking action to address some of the common issues that teachers face in the classroom. This includes helping schools to:

* [reduce workload](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/school-workload-reduction-toolkit)
* [support mental health and wellbeing](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/education-staff-wellbeing-charter)
* [enable flexible working](https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/flexible-working-resources-for-teachers-and-schools)
* [manage behaviour](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/behaviour-hubs)

The education sector promotes inclusivity and diversity. There are many organisations that support teachers with protected characteristics, such as [WomenEd](https://www.womened.org/), [BAMEed](https://www.bameednetwork.com/), [LGBTed](https://www.outteacher.org/) and [DisabilityEd](https://www.twitter.com/disability_ed).

[Search for jobs, including those with flexible working patterns, on Teaching Vacancies](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/).

## Join the National Tutoring Programme

The National Tutoring Programme supports schools with helping children get back up to speed after the disruption of the coronavirus pandemic. It also provides different options to return to a school without taking on a full-time or part-time classroom role. 

If you’re looking for an alternative to taking on a teaching role, the [National Tutoring Programme](https://nationaltutoring.org.uk/) could be it. Through it, you can tutor or mentor children and help provide support to disadvantaged pupils.

## Get a return to teaching adviser

If you have [qualified teacher status](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/qualified-teacher-status-qts) and you want to return to teach modern foreign languages, maths or physics at secondary school in England, a [return to teaching adviser](https://adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/) can give free one-to-one support with:

* the applications process, such as writing personal statements and preparing for interviews
* accessing courses to enhance your subject knowledge
* finding teaching vacancies

<div data-controller="aspect-ratio" data-aspect-ratio-width-value="560" data-aspect-ratio-height-value="290">
  <iframe 
    loading="lazy"
    src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/2NrLm_XId4k" 
    frameborder="0" 
    allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" 
    allowfullscreen
  ></iframe>
</div>

Return to teaching advisers also run [events to support returners](/event-categories/online-q-as).

$get-a-tta$

## Find a role

Teaching Vacancies is the government’s free, national job listing service for the teaching profession. [Search for a teaching role in England](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/).
You can set up job alerts so that you do not miss out on any opportunities.

Take a look at the different [types of schools and staff roles](https://www.gov.uk/types-of-school)
to find the best opportunity for you. Vacancies with flexible working opportunities are listed on the service.

$q-helen-returner$

[Read Helen's top tips for returning teachers](/my-story-into-teaching/returners/top-tips-for-returning-teachers).

## If you've been out of teaching for a while

If you’re returning to teaching, you might want to re-familiarise yourself with life in a classroom. Here are lots of ways that you can do it.

#### Reading teachers' stories and tips

* browse [inspirational stories](/blog/tag/returning-to-teaching) from Stephen, Farooq and Maria who returned to the classroom successfully after a break
* read up on [teaching interview tips](https://www.teachertoolkit.co.uk/2019/04/04/job-interviews) and get [pointers on remote interviews](/blog/how-to-ace-a-video-interview)

#### Catching up on changes

* review the latest [Teachers’ Standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teachers-standards)
* catch up on changes to the [national curriculum and qualifications](https://www.gov.uk/topic/schools-colleges-childrens-services/curriculum-qualifications)
* read through [current behaviour management guidelines](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/behaviour-and-discipline-in-schools)
* learn about how DfE have improved the [National Professional Qualifications (NPQs)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/national-professional-qualifications-npqs-reforms/national-professional-qualifications-npqs-reforms) and if you may be eligible for a fully funded scholarship 

#### Other things to consider

* attend an [online return to teaching event](/event-categories/online-q-as)
* join the [Chartered College of Teaching](https://chartered.college/), the
  professional body for teachers
* join a [teaching union](https://www.tes.com/jobs/careers-advice/pay-and-conditions/which-teachers-union)
* ensure your [pension](https://www.teacherspensions.co.uk/members/working-life/deferring-your-pension/return-to-pensionable-service.aspx), one of your key benefits, is up to date

Commit message:

Add a CTA to returners page about supply teaching

app/views/content/returning-to-teaching.md, after:

---
title: "Return to teaching"
description: |-
  Our return to teaching advisers can advise you on making a return to
  teaching, finding a role or joining the National Tutoring Programme.
date: "2021-06-18"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0010.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
keywords:
  - Returner
  - Return
  - Returning
  - Already
  - Qualified
  - Existing
  - National Tutoring Programme
  - NTP
  - Teaching Jobs
  - Unqualified teacher
  - Workload
  - Equality Act
  - Teacher Vacancies
  - Jobs
  - Protected Characteristics
  - BAME
  - BAMEed
  - LGBT
  - LGBTEd
  - WomenEd
  - Disability
  - DisabilityEd
  - back
  - vacancies
  - teach again
  - tutor
  - QTS
calls_to_action:
  get-a-tta:
    name: simple
    arguments:
      text: "Return to teaching advisers specialise in helping returning teachers with qualified teacher status (QTS) get back into the classroom."
      link_text: "Get a return to teaching adviser"
      link_target: "/tta-service"
      icon: "icon-person"

  urgent-call-for-qualified-teachers:
    name: simple
    arguments:
      text: "There's an urgent call for qualified teachers to get back into the classroom."
      link_text: "Find supply teaching agencies"
      link_target: "/urgent-call-for-qualified-teachers"
      icon: "icon-school-black"

right_column:
  ctas:
  - title: Return from overseas
    text: |
      Are you a UK-trained teacher and UK citizen currently working abroad?
    link_text: "Return to England to teach"
    link_target: "/international-returners"
    icon: "icon-person"
  - title: Take the next step
    text: |
      Get support to take the next step at an event.
    link_text: "Attend an event"
    link_target: "/events"
    icon: "icon-calendar"
quote:
  q-helen-returner:
    text: "Don’t necessarily expect to get the first job you apply for and don’t get disheartened if you’re not successful."
    name: "Helen"
    job_title: "Returning teacher"
---

$urgent-call-for-qualified-teachers$

Returning to teaching can be easier than you expect.

More than ever, our children and young people need your skills and experience back in the classroom.  

If you’re thinking about returning to teaching, or if you’re qualified to teach but have never taught in a state school in England, we can help.  

<div data-controller="aspect-ratio" data-aspect-ratio-width-value="560" data-aspect-ratio-height-value="290">
  <iframe 
    loading="lazy"
    src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/_oQ4DTXkGHk" 
    frameborder="0" 
    allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" 
    allowfullscreen
  ></iframe>
</div>

If you’re thinking about returning to the classroom, you might want to [get a return to teaching adviser](https://adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/). They can give you free one-to-one support, helping you get back into teaching. 

## Why now

Thousands of former teachers return to teaching each year.

Now could be a great time for you to become a teacher again and help support education recovery.

Here at the Department for Education, we’re taking action to address some of the common issues that teachers face in the classroom. This includes helping schools to:

* [reduce workload](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/school-workload-reduction-toolkit)
* [support mental health and wellbeing](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/education-staff-wellbeing-charter)
* [enable flexible working](https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/flexible-working-resources-for-teachers-and-schools)
* [manage behaviour](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/behaviour-hubs)

The education sector promotes inclusivity and diversity. There are many organisations that support teachers with protected characteristics, such as [WomenEd](https://www.womened.org/), [BAMEed](https://www.bameednetwork.com/), [LGBTed](https://www.outteacher.org/) and [DisabilityEd](https://www.twitter.com/disability_ed).

[Search for jobs, including those with flexible working patterns, on Teaching Vacancies](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/).

## Join the National Tutoring Programme

The National Tutoring Programme supports schools with helping children get back up to speed after the disruption of the coronavirus pandemic. It also provides different options to return to a school without taking on a full-time or part-time classroom role. 

If you’re looking for an alternative to taking on a teaching role, the [National Tutoring Programme](https://nationaltutoring.org.uk/) could be it. Through it, you can tutor or mentor children and help provide support to disadvantaged pupils.

## Get a return to teaching adviser

If you have [qualified teacher status](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/qualified-teacher-status-qts) and you want to return to teach modern foreign languages, maths or physics at secondary school in England, a [return to teaching adviser](https://adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/) can give free one-to-one support with:

* the applications process, such as writing personal statements and preparing for interviews
* accessing courses to enhance your subject knowledge
* finding teaching vacancies

<div data-controller="aspect-ratio" data-aspect-ratio-width-value="560" data-aspect-ratio-height-value="290">
  <iframe 
    loading="lazy"
    src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/2NrLm_XId4k" 
    frameborder="0" 
    allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" 
    allowfullscreen
  ></iframe>
</div>

Return to teaching advisers also run [events to support returners](/event-categories/online-q-as).

$get-a-tta$

## Find a role

Teaching Vacancies is the government’s free, national job listing service for the teaching profession. [Search for a teaching role in England](https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/).
You can set up job alerts so that you do not miss out on any opportunities.

Take a look at the different [types of schools and staff roles](https://www.gov.uk/types-of-school)
to find the best opportunity for you. Vacancies with flexible working opportunities are listed on the service.

$q-helen-returner$

[Read Helen's top tips for returning teachers](/my-story-into-teaching/returners/top-tips-for-returning-teachers).

## If you've been out of teaching for a while

If you’re returning to teaching, you might want to re-familiarise yourself with life in a classroom. Here are lots of ways that you can do it.

#### Reading teachers' stories and tips

* browse [inspirational stories](/blog/tag/returning-to-teaching) from Stephen, Farooq and Maria who returned to the classroom successfully after a break
* read up on [teaching interview tips](https://www.teachertoolkit.co.uk/2019/04/04/job-interviews) and get [pointers on remote interviews](/blog/how-to-ace-a-video-interview)

#### Catching up on changes

* review the latest [Teachers’ Standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teachers-standards)
* catch up on changes to the [national curriculum and qualifications](https://www.gov.uk/topic/schools-colleges-childrens-services/curriculum-qualifications)
* read through [current behaviour management guidelines](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/behaviour-and-discipline-in-schools)
* learn about how DfE have improved the [National Professional Qualifications (NPQs)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/national-professional-qualifications-npqs-reforms/national-professional-qualifications-npqs-reforms) and if you may be eligible for a fully funded scholarship 

#### Other things to consider

* attend an [online return to teaching event](/event-categories/online-q-as)
* join the [Chartered College of Teaching](https://chartered.college/), the
  professional body for teachers
* join a [teaching union](https://www.tes.com/jobs/careers-advice/pay-and-conditions/which-teachers-union)
* ensure your [pension](https://www.teacherspensions.co.uk/members/working-life/deferring-your-pension/return-to-pensionable-service.aspx), one of your key benefits, is up to date
