app/views/content/salaries-and-benefits.md, before:

---
title: "Salaries and benefits"
description: |-
  View teachers' pay scales, pay ranges table and salary bands for England and London, 
  as well as other benefits such as holidays and the Teacher Pension Scheme. Find out the average starting salary for primary and secondary school teachers, as well as leading practictioners and headteachers.
date: "2021-06-24"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0007.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
navigation: 40
lid_pixel_event: "SalaryBenefits"
right_column:
  ctas:
    - title: How to train to teach
      text: |
       Find out how to train to become a qualified primary or secondary teacher in England.
      link_text: "Ways to train"
      link_target: "/ways-to-train"
      icon: "icon-person"
      hide_on_mobile: Yes
      hide_on_tablet: Yes
keywords:
  - Salary
  - Salaries
  - Band
  - Pay
  - Pay scale
  - Scale
  - Teacher Salary
  - Teacher Salaries
  - Leading Practitioner
  - Headteacher
  - Progression
  - Unqualified Teacher
  - Teaching and learning responsibility
  - TLR
  - Holiday
  - Annual Leave
  - Pension
  - Additional
  - Responsibility
  - Responsibilities
  - Career
  - Benefits
  - Earnings
  - Leadership
  - Early Career Framework
  - Support
  - Training
  - ECF
---

Schools develop their own pay scales to attract and retain teachers that have the greatest impact on their pupils' learning.

What you're paid will be linked to performance, not length of service - meaning your salary can increase as you go through your career.

## Qualified teachers

As a newly qualified teacher (NQT) in a primary or secondary school your starting salary will be between £25,714 and £32,157 depending on where you teach.

As you progress in your teaching career, it's possible to move up through these pay scales:

| Area                          | Minimum | Maximum |
| -------                       | -----   | -----   |
| Inner London                  | £32,157 | £50,953 |
| Outer London                  | £29,915 | £45,766 |
| London fringe                 | £26,948 | £42,780 |
| The rest of England and Wales | £25,714 | £41,604 |

### Holidays

You'll get more days than people in many other professions. Full-time teachers work for 195 days per year in school.

### Newly qualified teacher (NQT) benefits

A 2-year package to support teachers at the start of their career, based on the [early career framework](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/supporting-early-career-teachers), launches nationally in September 2021.

The support package includes:

* funded 5% time off timetable in the second year of teaching, in addition to the existing 10% in the first year
* a range of high-quality, freely available curricula and training materials underpinned by the early career framework
* funded training for mentors of early career teachers
* funded time for mentors to support early career teachers

### Get a salary uplift for taking on extra responsibilities

You may be able to get 'teaching and learning responsibility' (TLR) payments if you take on extra responsibilities such as:

* progressing the education of people beyond your assigned pupils
* leading, developing and enhancing the teaching practice of others

TLR payments come in 2 main pay ranges (TLR 1 and TLR 2) depending on your responsibilities. For example, the higher payment involves taking on line management responsibilities.

| Level   | Minimum | Maximum |
| ------- | -----   | -----   |
| TLR 1   | £8,291  | £14,030 |
| TLR 2   | £2,873  | £7,017  |

### Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Teachers’ Pension Scheme gives you a regular source of income when you retire. It is:

* based on your teaching salary and service rather than investments
* registered with HM Revenue and Customs - so your contributions are tax-free
* flexible and allows you to take some of it as a tax-free lump sum

[Find out more about the Teachers’ Pension Scheme](https://www.teacherspensions.co.uk/members/new-starter.aspx)

## Career progression

### Leading practitioners

A 'leading practitioner' is an excellent and highly skilled teacher who consistently demonstrates the highest standards of classroom practice.

They share their skills and experience through the coaching, mentoring and induction of teachers, including trainees and newly qualified teachers (NQTs).

The pay scale for leading practitioners is between £42,402 and £72,480 depending on where you teach.

| Area                          | Minimum | Maximum |
| -------                       | -----   | -----   |
| Inner London                  | £50,415 | £72,480 |
| Outer London                  | £45,766 | £67,828 |
| London fringe                 | £43,570 | £65,631 |
| The rest of England and Wales | £42,402 | £64,461 |

### Headteachers

Headteachers lead, motivate and manage staff.

The pay scale for a headteacher is between £47,735 to £125,098 depending on where you teach.

| Area                          | Minimum | Maximum  |
| -------                       | -----   | -----    |
| Inner London                  | £55,715 | £125,098 |
| Outer London                  | £51,082 | £120,513 |
| London fringe                 | £48,901 | £118,356 |
| The rest of England and Wales | £47,735 | £117,197 |

#### Other leadership team positions

Headteachers work with other leadership teachers.

The average salary for leadership teachers (excluding headteachers) in 2019 was £54,911.

### Unqualified teachers

An unqualified teacher's salary can be between £18,169 and £33,410 depending on where you teach and your level of experience.

| Area                          | Minimum | Maximum |
| -------                       | -----   | -----   |
| Inner London                  | £22,849 | £33,410 |
| Outer London                  | £21,582 | £32,151 |
| London fringe                 | £19,363 | £29,924 |
| The rest of England and Wales | £18,169 | £28,735 |

Commit message:

Adding keyword 'average'
Adding average salary information for SEO purposes.

app/views/content/salaries-and-benefits.md, after:

---
title: "Salaries and benefits"
description: |-
  View teachers' pay scales, pay ranges table and salary bands for England and London, 
  as well as other benefits such as holidays and the Teacher Pension Scheme. Find out the average starting salary for primary and secondary school teachers, as well as leading practictioners and headteachers.
date: "2021-06-24"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0007.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
navigation: 40
lid_pixel_event: "SalaryBenefits"
right_column:
  ctas:
    - title: How to train to teach
      text: |
       Find out how to train to become a qualified primary or secondary teacher in England.
      link_text: "Ways to train"
      link_target: "/ways-to-train"
      icon: "icon-person"
      hide_on_mobile: Yes
      hide_on_tablet: Yes
keywords:
  - Salary
  - Salaries
  - Band
  - Pay
  - Pay scale
  - Scale
  - Teacher Salary
  - Teacher Salaries
  - Leading Practitioner
  - Headteacher
  - Progression
  - Unqualified Teacher
  - Teaching and learning responsibility
  - TLR
  - Holiday
  - Annual Leave
  - Pension
  - Additional
  - Responsibility
  - Responsibilities
  - Career
  - Benefits
  - Earnings
  - Leadership
  - Early Career Framework
  - Support
  - Training
  - ECF
---

Schools develop their own pay scales to attract and retain teachers that have the greatest impact on their pupils' learning.

What you're paid will be linked to performance, not length of service - meaning your salary can increase as you go through your career.

## Qualified teachers

As a newly qualified teacher (NQT) in a primary or secondary school your starting salary will be between £25,714 and £32,157 depending on where you teach.

As you progress in your teaching career, it's possible to move up through these pay scales:

| Area                          | Minimum | Maximum |
| -------                       | -----   | -----   |
| Inner London                  | £32,157 | £50,953 |
| Outer London                  | £29,915 | £45,766 |
| London fringe                 | £26,948 | £42,780 |
| The rest of England and Wales | £25,714 | £41,604 |

In 2020/21, the average salary for a full time teacher was £41,800 - an increase of £1,000 since last year.

### Holidays

You'll get more days than people in many other professions. Full-time teachers work for 195 days per year in school.

### Newly qualified teacher (NQT) benefits

A 2-year package to support teachers at the start of their career, based on the [early career framework](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/supporting-early-career-teachers), launches nationally in September 2021.

The support package includes:

* funded 5% time off timetable in the second year of teaching, in addition to the existing 10% in the first year
* a range of high-quality, freely available curricula and training materials underpinned by the early career framework
* funded training for mentors of early career teachers
* funded time for mentors to support early career teachers

### Get a salary uplift for taking on extra responsibilities

You may be able to get 'teaching and learning responsibility' (TLR) payments if you take on extra responsibilities such as:

* progressing the education of people beyond your assigned pupils
* leading, developing and enhancing the teaching practice of others

TLR payments come in 2 main pay ranges (TLR 1 and TLR 2) depending on your responsibilities. For example, the higher payment involves taking on line management responsibilities.

| Level   | Minimum | Maximum |
| ------- | -----   | -----   |
| TLR 1   | £8,291  | £14,030 |
| TLR 2   | £2,873  | £7,017  |

### Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Teachers’ Pension Scheme gives you a regular source of income when you retire. It is:

* based on your teaching salary and service rather than investments
* registered with HM Revenue and Customs - so your contributions are tax-free
* flexible and allows you to take some of it as a tax-free lump sum

[Find out more about the Teachers’ Pension Scheme](https://www.teacherspensions.co.uk/members/new-starter.aspx)

## Career progression

### Leading practitioners

A 'leading practitioner' is an excellent and highly skilled teacher who consistently demonstrates the highest standards of classroom practice.

They share their skills and experience through the coaching, mentoring and induction of teachers, including trainees and newly qualified teachers (NQTs).

The pay scale for leading practitioners is between £42,402 and £72,480 depending on where you teach.

| Area                          | Minimum | Maximum |
| -------                       | -----   | -----   |
| Inner London                  | £50,415 | £72,480 |
| Outer London                  | £45,766 | £67,828 |
| London fringe                 | £43,570 | £65,631 |
| The rest of England and Wales | £42,402 | £64,461 |

In 2020/21, the average salary for a leading practitioner was £56,400.

### Headteachers

Headteachers lead, motivate and manage staff.

The pay scale for a headteacher is between £47,735 to £125,098 depending on where you teach.

| Area                          | Minimum | Maximum  |
| -------                       | -----   | -----    |
| Inner London                  | £55,715 | £125,098 |
| Outer London                  | £51,082 | £120,513 |
| London fringe                 | £48,901 | £118,356 |
| The rest of England and Wales | £47,735 | £117,197 |

In 2020/21, the average salary for a headteacher was £73,500.

#### Other leadership team positions

Headteachers work with other leadership teachers.

The average salary for leadership teachers (excluding headteachers) in 2019 was £54,911.

### Unqualified teachers

An unqualified teacher's salary can be between £18,169 and £33,410 depending on where you teach and your level of experience.

| Area                          | Minimum | Maximum |
| -------                       | -----   | -----   |
| Inner London                  | £22,849 | £33,410 |
| Outer London                  | £21,582 | £32,151 |
| London fringe                 | £19,363 | £29,924 |
| The rest of England and Wales | £18,169 | £28,735 |
