app/views/content/steps-to-become-a-teacher.md, before:

---
  title: "Steps to become a teacher"
  layout: "layouts/steps"
  description: |-
    Step-by-step guide to how you can become a teacher in a primary or secondary school in England. Understand the qualifications you need, the bursaries available and the ways you can do your teacher training.
  date: "2021-06-24"
  image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0017.jpg"
  backlink: "../"
  navigation: 10
  lid_pixel_event: "Steps"
  steps:
    Decide who to teach:
      partial: content/steps-to-become-a-teacher/step_1_decide_who_to_teach
    Check your qualifications:
      partial: content/steps-to-become-a-teacher/step_2_check_your_qualifications
    Learn about funding:
      partial: content/steps-to-become-a-teacher/step_3_learn_about_funding
    Find the right training:
      partial: content/steps-to-become-a-teacher/step_4_find_the_right_training
    Apply for your course:
      partial: content/steps-to-become-a-teacher/step_5_apply_for_your_course
  keywords:
    - QTS
    - Qualified Teacher Status
    - ITT
    - Initial Teacher Training
    - International
    - Return
    - Returning
    - Returner
    - Qualifications
    - Eligibility
    - Eligible
    - Degree
    - GCSE
    - Event
    - Updates
    - Stories
    - Teacher Training Adviser
    - School Experience
    - Schools Experience
    - Get School Experience
    - Ways to train
    - Personal Statement
    - Reference
    - References
    - Referee
    - Referees
    - Interview
    - How to apply
    - How to
    - Adviser
    - Advisers
    - TTA
    - Advisor
    - Teacher Training Advisor
    - get an adviser


---

Commit message:

Include Google structured data for how-to
Adding structured data for 'how-tos' enables Google to enhance the search
results for certain pages, showing the steps in the results.

Initially I've added this to the Steps to Become a Teacher page with mostly
dummy data; it'll need running past a content designer and designer for the
text/images, but its behind a feature flag just now.

app/views/content/steps-to-become-a-teacher.md, after:

---
  title: "Steps to become a teacher"
  layout: "layouts/steps"
  description: |-
    Step-by-step guide to how you can become a teacher in a primary or secondary school in England. Understand the qualifications you need, the bursaries available and the ways you can do your teacher training.
  date: "2021-06-24"
  image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0017.jpg"
  backlink: "../"
  navigation: 10
  lid_pixel_event: "Steps"
  steps:
    Decide who to teach:
      partial: content/steps-to-become-a-teacher/step_1_decide_who_to_teach
    Check your qualifications:
      partial: content/steps-to-become-a-teacher/step_2_check_your_qualifications
    Learn about funding:
      partial: content/steps-to-become-a-teacher/step_3_learn_about_funding
    Find the right training:
      partial: content/steps-to-become-a-teacher/step_4_find_the_right_training
    Apply for your course:
      partial: content/steps-to-become-a-teacher/step_5_apply_for_your_course
  how_to:
    Decide who to teach:
      id: "step-1"
      image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0017.jpg"
      directions:
        - Get school experience or attend events.
    Check your qualifications:
      id: "step-2"
      image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0017.jpg"
      directions:
        - Once you have a degree or equivalent qualification you’re ready for postgraduate primary or secondary initial teacher training courses.
    Learn about funding:
      id: "step-3"
      image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0017.jpg"
      directions:
        - You can get funding that you do not have to pay back if you train to teach certain subjects.
    Find the right training:
      id: "step-4"
      image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0017.jpg"
      directions:
        - Explore your options, find out how to train to teach primary or secondary (for example a PGCE or directly in a school).
    Apply for your course:
      id: "step-5"
      image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0017.jpg"
      directions:
        - Get tips on applying, including finding the right referees and writing a personal statement.
  keywords:
    - QTS
    - Qualified Teacher Status
    - ITT
    - Initial Teacher Training
    - International
    - Return
    - Returning
    - Returner
    - Qualifications
    - Eligibility
    - Eligible
    - Degree
    - GCSE
    - Event
    - Updates
    - Stories
    - Teacher Training Adviser
    - School Experience
    - Schools Experience
    - Get School Experience
    - Ways to train
    - Personal Statement
    - Reference
    - References
    - Referee
    - Referees
    - Interview
    - How to apply
    - How to
    - Adviser
    - Advisers
    - TTA
    - Advisor
    - Teacher Training Advisor
    - get an adviser


---
