app/views/content/ways-to-train.md, before:

---
title: "Ways to train"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0003.jpg"
description: |-
  Official Department for Education guidance on teacher training. Find out how to become a teacher, get qualified teacher status (QTS) through a PGCE or school direct and the salaries and funding available. 
subtitle: New events added - join an event near you and get all the info you need to become a teacher. 
subtitle_button: "Book your place"
subtitle_link: "event-categories/train-to-teach-events"
date: "2021-06-07"
backlink: "../"
navigation: 20
article_classes: ['ways-to-train']
right_column:
  ctas:
    - title: New events added.
      text: Turn your questions into confidence. Join our next event to decide which training suits you best.  
      link_text: "Events near you"
      link_target: "/event-categories/train-to-teach-events"
      icon: "icon-calendar"
      hide_on_mobile: Yes
      hide_on_tablet: Yes
calls_to_action:
    find-postgraduate-training:
      name: simple
      arguments:
        icon: "icon-arrow"
        text: |-
          If you have a degree (or you're getting one), search for postgraduate courses leading to qualified teacher status (QTS). This search tool does not include <a href="https://www.teachfirst.org.uk/">Teach First</a> courses.
        link_text: "Find postgraduate teacher training courses"
        link_target: "https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses"
related_content:
    Get support training to teach if you're disabled: "/get-support-training-to-teach-if-you-are-disabled"
    Improve your subject knowledge : "/improve-your-subject-knowledge"
    Tips on applying for teacher training : "/tips-on-applying-for-teacher-training"
keywords:
  - QTS
  - Qualified Teacher Status
  - ITT
  - Initial Teacher Training
  - Postgraduate
  - PGCE
  - Postgraduate Certificate in Education
  - School Direct
  - Schools Direct
  - School-centred initial teacher training
  - SCITT
  - Postgraduate Teaching Apprenticeship
  - Teaching Apprenticeship
  - Apprentice
  - Apprenticeship
  - Teach First
  - PGDE
  - Postgraduate Diploma in Education
  - Assessment only
  - Assessment-only
  - AO
  - Providers
  - Teaching
  - Teacher training
  - How to become a teacher
  - Teacher training courses
---

You need 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) to work in the majority of schools in England including state maintained primary, secondary and special schools.

Find out how to get QTS if you:

* [have a degree](#if-you-have-a-degree) (or you're getting one)
* [do not have a degree](#if-you-do-not-have-a-degree) (and you're not already doing one)
* [are already an experienced teacher](#if-you-are-already-an-experienced-teacher)

You can also find specialised teacher training programmes if you're [changing career](#if-youre-changing-career) or you [have a doctorate](#if-you-have-a-doctorate).

Not looking to teach in primary or secondary settings? Consider teaching [early years](/early-years-teaching-training) or [further education](/become-a-further-education-teacher).

## If you have a degree

### Go back to university as a postgraduate student

With university-led teacher training you spend about a third of your time in academic learning and the rest in school placements.

In addition to QTS you'll get a PGCE or PGDE (an academic qualification).

Courses typically take one year but you may be able to study part-time.

Fees are usually around £9,250 but you can:

* get [funding that you do not have to pay back](/funding-your-training#bursaries-and-scholarships) for certain subjects
* apply for a [student loan](/funding-your-training#tuition-fee-and-maintenance-loans)

<div class="training-attributes">
  <h4>University-led training</h4>
  <div class="badges">
    <div class="badge pink">
      <div class="badge-text">Costs £9,250</div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge dark-cyan">
      <div class="badge-text">Funding available</div>
    </div>

    <div class="badge purple">
      <div class="badge-text">Takes 1 year</div>
    </div>

    <div class="badge dark-blue">
      <div class="badge-text">PGCE or PGDE</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

### Train as you teach at a school or group of schools

On a 'school direct (fee-funded)' programme you spend less time learning about the theory of teaching than you would in [university-led training](/ways-to-train#go-back-to-university-as-a-postgraduate-student).

Despite the focus on training as you teach, many courses give you a PGCE or PGDE (an academic qualification) in addition to QTS.

Courses typically take one year but you may be able to study part-time.

Fees are usually around £9,250 but you can:

* get [funding that you do not have to pay back](/funding-your-training#bursaries-and-scholarships) for certain subjects
* apply for a [student loan](/funding-your-training#tuition-fee-and-maintenance-loans)  

<div class="training-attributes">
  <h4>School direct<br/>(fee-funded)</h4>
  <div class="badges">
    <div class="badge pink">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Costs £9,250
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge dark-cyan">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Funding available
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge purple">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Takes 1 year
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge dark-blue">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Often a PGCE or PGDE
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

### Earn a salary

Some teacher training programmes like 'school direct (salaried)' and 'postgraduate teaching apprenticeships' offer a salary.

You spend less time learning about the theory of teaching than you would in [university-led training](/ways-to-train#go-back-to-university-as-a-postgraduate-student).

Despite the focus on training as you teach, many 'school direct (salaried)' courses give you a PGCE or PGDE (an academic qualification) in addition to QTS.

Courses typically take one year but you may be able to study part-time.

[Teach First](https://www.teachfirst.org.uk/) also offers a salary. It's a 2-year programme leading to a PGDE and QTS.

<dl>
  <div class="training-option">
    <dt>School direct<br/>(salaried)</dt>
    <dd class="badges">
      <div class="badge purple">
        <div class="badge-text">
          Takes 1 year
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="badge dark-blue">
        <div class="badge-text">
          Often a PGCE or PGDE
        </div>
      </div>
    </dd>
  </div>

  <div class="training-option">
    <dt>Postgraduate teaching apprenticeship</dt>
    <dd class="badges">
      <div class="badge purple">
        <div class="badge-text">
          Takes 1 year
        </div>
      </div>
    </dd>
  </div>

  <div class="training-option">
    <dt>Teach First</dt>
    <dd class="badges">
      <div class="badge purple">
        <div class="badge-text">
          Takes 2 years
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="badge dark-blue">
        <div class="badge-text">
          PGDE
        </div>
      </div>
    </dd>
  </div>
</dl>

$find-postgraduate-training$

## If you do not have a degree

### Do an undergraduate teacher training degree

You can get QTS as part of an undergraduate degree.

Courses typically cost £9,250 per year and can take up to 4 years but you can [get funding](https://www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator).

Qualifications vary depending on the course. For example, you could get QTS with a:

* Bachelor of Arts (BA)
* Bachelor of Education (BEd)
* Bachelor of Science (BSc)

<div class="training-attributes">
  <h4>Undergraduate teacher training</h4>
  <div class="badges">
    <div class="badge pink">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Costs £9,250 per year
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge dark-cyan">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Funding available
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge purple">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Up to 4 years
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge dark-blue">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Qualifications vary
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

<a href="https://digital.ucas.com/search" class="button">Find an undergraduate course</a>

## If you are already an experienced teacher

You may be able to get 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) through a 12-week 'assessment only' programme if you also have a degree.

You’ll need to show that you already meet the standards for QTS. For example, you may meet the standards if:

* you’ve already been employed as an unqualified teacher for a significant amount of time (for example, 2 years) and you’ve worked in more than one school
* [you’re a qualified teacher who trained overseas](/come-to-england-to-teach-if-you-are-a-teacher-from-outside-the-uk)

Entry criteria may vary by teacher training provider. Ask them about eligibility before you apply.

[Apply directly to assessment only teacher training providers](/assessment-only-providers).

## If you're changing career

A career change into teaching allows you to use your experience and
passion to inspire young people.

[Now Teach](https://nowteach.org.uk/) and [Transition to Teach](https://www.transitiontoteach.co.uk/) can support you with your career change.

## If you have a doctorate

If you have or are about to get a PHD you could consider the [researchers in schools](https://thebrilliantclub.org/researchers-in-schools/) programme.

If you have a lot of relevant work experience you could even earn a salary.

Commit message:

Updating content following feedback about accuracy

app/views/content/ways-to-train.md, after:

---
title: "Ways to train"
image: "media/images/content/hero-images/0003.jpg"
description: |-
  Official Department for Education guidance on teacher training. Find out how to become a teacher, get qualified teacher status (QTS) through a PGCE or school direct and the salaries and funding available. 
subtitle: New events added - join an event near you and get all the info you need to become a teacher. 
subtitle_button: "Book your place"
subtitle_link: "event-categories/train-to-teach-events"
date: "2021-06-07"
backlink: "../"
navigation: 20
article_classes: ['ways-to-train']
right_column:
  ctas:
    - title: New events added.
      text: Turn your questions into confidence. Join our next event to decide which training suits you best.  
      link_text: "Events near you"
      link_target: "/event-categories/train-to-teach-events"
      icon: "icon-calendar"
      hide_on_mobile: Yes
      hide_on_tablet: Yes
calls_to_action:
    find-postgraduate-training:
      name: simple
      arguments:
        icon: "icon-arrow"
        text: |-
          If you have a degree (or you're getting one), search for postgraduate courses leading to qualified teacher status (QTS). This search tool does not include <a href="https://www.teachfirst.org.uk/">Teach First</a> courses.
        link_text: "Find postgraduate teacher training courses"
        link_target: "https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses"
related_content:
    Get support training to teach if you're disabled: "/get-support-training-to-teach-if-you-are-disabled"
    Improve your subject knowledge : "/improve-your-subject-knowledge"
    Tips on applying for teacher training : "/tips-on-applying-for-teacher-training"
keywords:
  - QTS
  - Qualified Teacher Status
  - ITT
  - Initial Teacher Training
  - Postgraduate
  - PGCE
  - Postgraduate Certificate in Education
  - School Direct
  - Schools Direct
  - School-centred initial teacher training
  - SCITT
  - Postgraduate Teaching Apprenticeship
  - Teaching Apprenticeship
  - Apprentice
  - Apprenticeship
  - Teach First
  - PGDE
  - Postgraduate Diploma in Education
  - Assessment only
  - Assessment-only
  - AO
  - Providers
  - Teaching
  - Teacher training
  - How to become a teacher
  - Teacher training courses
---

You need 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) to work in the majority of schools in England including state maintained primary, secondary and special schools.

Find out how to get QTS if you:

* [have a degree](#if-you-have-a-degree) (or you're getting one)
* [do not have a degree](#if-you-do-not-have-a-degree) (and you're not already doing one)
* [are already an experienced teacher](#if-you-are-already-an-experienced-teacher)

You can also find specialised teacher training programmes if you're [changing career](#if-youre-changing-career) or you [have a doctorate](#if-you-have-a-doctorate).

Not looking to teach in primary or secondary settings? Consider teaching [early years](/early-years-teaching-training) or [further education](/become-a-further-education-teacher).

## If you have a degree

### Go back to university as a postgraduate student

With university-led teacher training you spend some of your time in academic learning, but the majority in school placements.

In addition to QTS you'll get a PGCE or PGDE (an academic qualification).

Courses typically take one year but you may be able to study part-time.

Fees are usually around £9,250 but you can:

* get [funding that you do not have to pay back](/funding-your-training#bursaries-and-scholarships) for certain subjects
* apply for a [student loan](/funding-your-training#tuition-fee-and-maintenance-loans)

<div class="training-attributes">
  <h4>University-led training</h4>
  <div class="badges">
    <div class="badge pink">
      <div class="badge-text">Costs £9,250</div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge dark-cyan">
      <div class="badge-text">Funding available</div>
    </div>

    <div class="badge purple">
      <div class="badge-text">Takes 1 year</div>
    </div>

    <div class="badge dark-blue">
      <div class="badge-text">PGCE or PGDE</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

### Train as you teach at a school or group of schools

On a 'school direct (fee-funded)' programme, your learning will be centred on a particular school, but you will also be placed in different schools during your course.

Many school direct programmes give you a PGCE or PGDE (an academic qualification) in addition to QTS.

Courses typically take one year but you may be able to study part-time.

Fees are usually around £9,250 but you can:

* get [funding that you do not have to pay back](/funding-your-training#bursaries-and-scholarships) for certain subjects
* apply for a [student loan](/funding-your-training#tuition-fee-and-maintenance-loans)  

<div class="training-attributes">
  <h4>School direct<br/>(fee-funded)</h4>
  <div class="badges">
    <div class="badge pink">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Costs £9,250
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge dark-cyan">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Funding available
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge purple">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Takes 1 year
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge dark-blue">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Often a PGCE or PGDE
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

### Earn a salary

Some teacher training programmes like 'school direct (salaried)' and 'postgraduate teaching apprenticeships' offer a salary.

These courses are usually suitable for people who already have relevant teaching experience, or are already working as unqualified teachers. 

Many 'school direct (salaried)' programmes give you a PGCE or PGDE (an academic qualification) in addition to QTS.

Courses typically take one year but you may be able to study part-time.

[Teach First](https://www.teachfirst.org.uk/) also offers a salary. It's a 2-year programme leading to a PGDE and QTS.

<dl>
  <div class="training-option">
    <dt>School direct<br/>(salaried)</dt>
    <dd class="badges">
      <div class="badge purple">
        <div class="badge-text">
          Takes 1 year
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="badge dark-blue">
        <div class="badge-text">
          Often a PGCE or PGDE
        </div>
      </div>
    </dd>
  </div>

  <div class="training-option">
    <dt>Postgraduate teaching apprenticeship</dt>
    <dd class="badges">
      <div class="badge purple">
        <div class="badge-text">
          Takes 1 year
        </div>
      </div>
    </dd>
  </div>

  <div class="training-option">
    <dt>Teach First</dt>
    <dd class="badges">
      <div class="badge purple">
        <div class="badge-text">
          Takes 2 years
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="badge dark-blue">
        <div class="badge-text">
          PGDE
        </div>
      </div>
    </dd>
  </div>
</dl>

$find-postgraduate-training$

## If you do not have a degree

### Do an undergraduate teacher training degree

You can get QTS as part of an undergraduate degree.

Courses typically cost £9,250 per year and can take up to 4 years but you can [get funding](https://www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator).

Qualifications vary depending on the course. For example, you could get QTS with a:

* Bachelor of Arts (BA)
* Bachelor of Education (BEd)
* Bachelor of Science (BSc)

<div class="training-attributes">
  <h4>Undergraduate teacher training</h4>
  <div class="badges">
    <div class="badge pink">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Costs £9,250 per year
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge dark-cyan">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Funding available
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge purple">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Up to 4 years
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="badge dark-blue">
      <div class="badge-text">
        Qualifications vary
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

<a href="https://digital.ucas.com/search" class="button">Find an undergraduate course</a>

## If you are already an experienced teacher

You may be able to get 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) through a 12-week 'assessment only' programme if you also have a degree.

You’ll need to show that you already meet the standards for QTS. For example, you may meet the standards if:

* you’ve already been employed as an unqualified teacher for a significant amount of time (for example, 2 years) and you’ve worked in more than one school
* [you’re a qualified teacher who trained overseas](/come-to-england-to-teach-if-you-are-a-teacher-from-outside-the-uk)

Entry criteria may vary by teacher training provider. Ask them about eligibility before you apply.

[Apply directly to assessment only teacher training providers](/assessment-only-providers).

## If you're changing career

A career change into teaching allows you to use your experience and
passion to inspire young people.

[Now Teach](https://nowteach.org.uk/) and [Transition to Teach](https://www.transitiontoteach.co.uk/) can support you with your career change.

## If you have a doctorate

If you have or are about to get a PHD you could consider the [researchers in schools](https://thebrilliantclub.org/researchers-in-schools/) programme.

If you have a lot of relevant work experience you could even earn a salary.
